 
In this paper we present a method for 
detecting the text genre quickly and easily 
following an approach originally proposed 
in authorship attribution studies which uses 
as style markers the frequencies of 
occurrence of the most frequent words in a 
training corpus (Burrows, 1992). In contrast 
to this approach we use the frequencies of 
occurrence of the most frequent words of the 
entire written language. Using as testing 
ground a part of the Wall Street Journal 
corpus, we show that the most frequent 
words of the British National Corpus, 
representing the most frequent words of the 
written English language, are more reliable 
discriminators oftext genre in comparison to 
the most frequent words of the training 
corpus. Moreover, the fi'equencies of 
occurrence of the most common punctuation 
marks play an important role in terms of 
accurate text categorization aswell as when 
dealing with training data of limited size. 
