
This paper proposes a new approach for text
categorization, based on a feature projection
technique. In our approach, training data are
represented as the projections of training
documents on each feature. The voting for a
classification is processed on the basis of
individual feature projections. The final
classification of test documents is
determined by a majority voting from the
individual classifications of each feature.
Our empirical results show that the proposed
approach, Text Categorization using Feature
Projections (TCFP), outperforms k-NN,
Rocchio, and Na?ve Bayes. Most of all,
TCFP is about one hundred times faster than
k-NN. Since TCFP algorithm is very simple,
its implementation and training process can
be done very easily. For these reasons,
TCFP can be a useful classifier in the areas,
which need a fast and high-performance text
categorization task.
