 
With the rapid growth of real world 
applications for NLP systems, there 
is a genuine demand for a general 
toolkit from which programmers 
with no linguistic knowledge can 
build specific NLP systems. Such a 
toolkit should have a parser that is 
general enough to be used across 
domains, and yet accurate enough for 
each specific application. In this 
paper, we describe a parser that 
extends a broad-coverage parser, 
Minipar (Lin, 2001), with an 
adaptable shallow parser so as to 
achieve both generality and accuracy 
in handling domain specific NL 
problems. We test this parser on our 
corpus and the results show that the 
accuracy is significantly higher than 
a system that uses Minipar alone. 
1 