  
Title generation is a complex task involving 
both natural language understanding and 
natural language synthesis. In this paper, we 
propose a new probabilistic model for title 
generation. Different from the previous 
statistical models for title generation, which 
treat title generation as a generation process 
that converts the ?document representation? 
of information directly into a ?title 
representation? of the same information, this 
model introduces a hidden state called 
?information source? and divides title 
generation into two steps, namely the step of 
distilling the ?information source? from the 
observation of a document and the step of 
generating a title from the estimated 
?information source?. In our experiment, the 
new probabilistic model outperforms the 
previous model for title generation in terms 
of both automatic evaluations and human 
judgments. 
