 
With the rapid growth of real 
application domains for NLP systems, 
there is a genuine demand for a general 
toolkit from which programmers with no 
linguistic knowledge can build specific 
NLP systems. Such a toolkit should 
provide an interface to accept sample 
sentences and convert them into 
semantic representations so as to allow 
programmers to map them to domain 
actions. In order to reduce the workload 
of managing a large number of semantic 
forms individually, the toolkit will 
perform what we call semantic grouping 
to organize the forms into meaningful 
groups. In this paper, we present three 
semantic grouping methods: similarity-
based, verb-based and category-based 
grouping, and their implementation in 
the SLUI toolkit. We also discuss the 
pros and cons of each method and how 
they can be utilized according to the 
different domain needs. 
1 