
It is commonly believed that word segmentation ac-
curacy is monotonically related to retrieval perfor-
mance in Chinese information retrieval. In this pa-
per we show that, for Chinese, the relationship be-
tween segmentation and retrieval performance is in
fact nonmonotonic; that is, at around 70% word
segmentation accuracy an over-segmentation phe-
nomenon begins to occur which leads to a reduction
in information retrieval performance. We demon-
strate this effect by presenting an empirical inves-
tigation of information retrieval on Chinese TREC
data, using a wide variety of word segmentation al-
gorithms with word segmentation accuracies ranging
from 44% to 95%. It appears that the main reason
for the drop in retrieval performance is that correct
compounds and collocations are preserved by accu-
rate segmenters, while they are broken up by less
accurate (but reasonable) segmenters, to a surpris-
ing advantage. This suggests that words themselves
might be too broad a notion to conveniently capture
the general semantic meaning of Chinese text.
1 