
The MT system described in this paper
combines hand-built analysis and generation
components with automatically learned
example-based transfer patterns. Up to now,
the transfer component used a traditional
bilingual dictionary to seed the transfer
pattern learning process and to provide
fallback translations at runtime. This paper
describes an improvement to the system by
which the bilingual dictionary used for these
purposes is instead learned automatically
from aligned bilingual corpora, making the
system?s transfer knowledge entirely
derivable from corpora. We show that this
system with a fully automated transfer
process performs better than the system
with a hand-crafted bilingual dictionary.
More importantly, this has enabled us to
create in less than one day a new language
pair, French-Spanish, which, for a technical
domain, surpasses the quality bar of the
commercial system chosen for comparison.
1 