  
One of the existing difficulties of 
cross-language information retrieval (CLIR) 
and Web search is the lack of appropriate 
translations of new terminology and proper 
names. Different from conventional 
approaches, in our previous research we 
developed an approach for exploiting Web 
anchor texts as live bilingual corpora and 
reducing the existing difficulties of query 
term translation. Although Web anchor texts, 
undoubtedly, are very valuable multilingual 
and wide-scoped hypertext resources, not 
every particular pair of languages contains 
sufficient anchor texts in the Web to extract 
corresponding translations in the language 
pair. For more generalized applications, in 
this paper we extend our previous approach 
by adding a phase of transitive (indirect) 
translation via an intermediate (third) 
language, and propose a transitive model to 
further exploit anchor-text mining in term 
translation extraction applications. 
Preliminary experimental results show that 
many query translations which cannot be 
obtained using the previous approach can be 
extracted with the improved approach. 
 
1. 