
We present a comparative evaluation of two
data-driven models used in translation selec-
tion of English-Korean machine translation. La-
tent semantic analysis(LSA) and probabilistic
latent semantic analysis (PLSA) are applied for
the purpose of implementation of data-driven
models in particular. These models are able to
represent complex semantic structures of given
contexts, like text passages. Grammatical rela-
tionships, stored in dictionaries, are utilized in
translation selection essentially. We have used
k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) learning to select an
appropriate translation of the unseen instances
in the dictionary. The distance of instances in
k-NN is computed by estimating the similar-
ity measured by LSA and PLSA. For experi-
ments, we used TREC data(AP news in 1988)
for constructing latent semantic spaces of two
models and Wall Street Journal corpus for eval-
uating the translation accuracy in each model.
PLSA selected relatively more accurate transla-
tions than LSA in the experiment, irrespective
of the value of k and the types of grammatical
relationship.
1 