  
This paper presents a method to implicitly 
resolve ambiguities using dynamic 
incremental clustering in Korean-to-English 
cross-language information retrieval. In the 
framework we propose, a query in Korean is 
first translated into English by looking up 
Korean-English dictionary, then documents 
are retrieved based on the vector space 
retrieval for the translated query terms. For 
the top-ranked retrieved documents, 
query-oriented document clusters are 
incrementally created and the weight of each 
retrieved document is re-calculated by using 
clusters. In experiment on TREC-6 CLIR 
test collection, our method achieved 28.29% 
performance improvement for translated 
queries without ambiguity resolution for 
queries. This corresponds to 97.27% of the 
monolingual performance for original 
queries. When we combine our method with 
query ambiguity resolution, our method 
even outperforms the monolingual retrieval. 
1 