  
A new statistical method called ?bilingual 
chunking? for structure alignment is 
proposed. Different with the existing 
approaches which align hierarchical 
structures like sub-trees, our method 
conducts alignment on chunks. The 
alignment is finished through a simultaneous 
bilingual chunking algorithm. Using the 
constrains of chunk correspondence between 
source language (SL)1 and target language  
(TL), our algorithm can dramatically reduce 
search space, support time synchronous DP 
algorithm, and lead to highly consistent 
chunking. Furthermore, by unifying the POS 
tagging and chunking in the search process, 
our algorithm alleviates effectively the 
influence of POS tagging deficiency to the 
chunking result.  
The experimental results with English- 
Chinese structure alignment show that our 
model can produce 90% in precision for 
chunking, and 87% in precision for chunk 
alignment.  
 
