  
Texts acquired from recognition sources?conti-
nuous speech/handwriting recognition and 
OCR?generally have three types of errors re-
gardless of the characteristics of the source in 
particular. The output of the recognition process 
may be (1) poorly segmented or not segmented at 
all; (2) containing underspecified symbols (where 
the recognition process can only indicate that the 
symbol belongs to a specific group), e.g. shape 
codes; (3) containing incorrectly identified sym-
bols. The project presented in this paper addresses 
these errors by developing of a unified linguistic 
framework called the MorphoLogic Recognition 
Assistant that provides feedback and corrections 
for various recognition processes. The framework 
uses customized morpho-syntactic and syntactic 
analysis where the lexicons and their alphabets 
correspond to the symbol set acquired from the 
recognition process. The successful framework 
must provide three services: (1) proper disambi-
guated segmentation, (2) disambiguation for un-
derspecified symbols, (3) correction for incorr-
ectly recognized symbols. The paper outlines the 
methods of morpho-syntactic and syntactic 
post-processing currently in use. 
