 
 
Classifier combination is a promising way 
to improve performance of word sense 
disambiguation. We propose a new 
combinational method in this paper. We first 
construct a series of Na?ve Bayesian 
classifiers along a sequence of orderly 
varying sized windows of context, and 
perform sense selection for both training 
samples and test samples using these 
classifiers. We thus get a sense selection 
trajectory along the sequence of context 
windows for each sample. Then we make use 
of these trajectories to make final 
k-nearest-neighbors-based sense selection for 
test samples. This method aims to lower the 
uncertainty brought by classifiers using 
different context windows and make more 
robust utilization of context while perform 
well. Experiments show that our approach 
outperforms some other algorithms on both 
robustness and performance. 
 
1  