 
Terminological variation is an integral part of the 
linguistic ability to realise a concept in many ways, 
but it is typically considered an obstacle to 
automatic term recognition (ATR) and term 
management. We present a method that integrates 
term variation in a hybrid ATR approach, in which 
term candidates are recognised by a set of 
linguistic filters and termhood assignment is based 
on joint frequency of occurrence of all term 
variants. We evaluate the effectiveness of 
incorporating specific types of term variation by 
comparing it to the performance of a baseline 
method that treats term variants as separate terms. 
We show that ATR precision is enhanced by 
considering joint termhoods of all term variants, 
while recall benefits by the introduction of new 
candidates through consideration of different 
variation types. On a biomedical test corpus we 
show that precision can be increased by 20?70% 
for the top ranked terms, while recall improves 
generally by 2?25%. 
1 