
Word segmentation is an important part of
many applications, including information
retrieval, information filtering, document
analysis, and text summarization. In Thai
language, the process is complicated since
words are written continuously, and their
structures are not well-defined. A recognized
effective approach to word segmentation is
Longest Matching, a method based on
dictionary. Nevertheless, this method suffers
from character-level and syllable-level
ambiguities in determining word boundaries.
This paper proposes a technique to Thai word
segmentation using a two-step approach. First,
text is segmented, using an application of
Prediction by Partial Matching, into syllables
whose structures are more well-defined. This
reduces the earlier type of ambiguity. Then,
the syllables are combined into words by an
application of a syllable-level longest
matching method together with a logistic
regression model which takes into account
contextual information. The experimental
results show the syllable segmentation
accuracy of more than 96.65% and the overall
word segmentation accuracy of 97%.
1 