 
The Colorado Literacy Tutor (CLT) is a 
technology-based literacy program, designed 
on the basis of cognitive theory and 
scientifically motivated reading research, 
which aims to improve literacy and student 
achievement in public schools. One of the 
critical components of the CLT is a speech 
recognition system which is used to track the 
child?s progress during oral reading and to 
provide sufficient information to detect 
reading miscues.  In this paper, we extend on 
prior work by examining a novel labeling of 
children?s oral reading audio data in order to 
better understand the factors that contribute 
most significantly to speech recognition 
errors.  While these events make up nearly 8% 
of the data, they are shown to account for 
approximately 30% of the word errors in a 
state-of-the-art speech recognizer.  Next, we 
consider the problem of detecting miscues 
during oral reading. Using features derived 
from the speech recognizer, we demonstrate 
that 67% of reading miscues can be detected at 
a false alarm rate of 3%. 
1 