
This paper presents example-based machine
translation (MT) based on syntactic trans-
fer, which selects the best translation by us-
ing models of statistical machine translation.
Example-based MT sometimes generates in-
valid translations because it selects similar ex-
amples to the input sentence based only on
source language similarity. The method pro-
posed in this paper selects the best transla-
tion by using a language model and a trans-
lation model in the same manner as statisti-
cal MT, and it can improve MT quality over
that of ?pure? example-based MT. A feature
of this method is that the statistical models
are applied after word re-ordering is achieved
by syntactic transfer. This implies that MT
quality is maintained even when we only ap-
ply a lexicon model as the translation model.
In addition, translation speed is improved by
bottom-up generation, which utilizes the tree
structure that is output from the syntactic
transfer.
1 