
The Papillon project is a collaborative
project to establish a multilingual dictio-
nary on the Web. This project started 4
years ago with French and Japanese. The
partners are now also working on English,
Chinese, Lao, Malay, Thai and Vietnamese.
It aims to apply the LINUX cooperative
construction paradigm to establish a broad-
coverage multilingual dictionary. Users can
contribute directly on the server by adding
new data or correcting existing errors. Their
contributions are stored in the user space
until checked by a specialist before being
fully integrated into the database. The re-
sulting data is then publicly available and
freely distributable. An essential condition
for the success of the project is to find a
handy solution for all the participants to be
able to contribute online by editing dictio-
nary entries.In this paper, we describe our
solution for an online generic editor of dic-
tionary entries based on the description of
their structure.
1 