 
This paper describes the supervised ac-
quisition of semantic event frames  based 
on a corpus of biomedical abstracts, in 
which the biological process of E. coli 
gene regulation has been linguistically 
annotated by a group of biologists in the 
EC research project "BOOTStrep". Gene 
regulation is one of the rapidly advancing 
areas for which information extraction 
could boost research. Event frames are an 
essential linguistic resource for extraction 
of information from biological literature.  
This paper presents a specification for 
linguistic-level annotation of gene regu-
lation events, followed by novel methods 
of automatic event frame extraction from 
text.  The event frame extraction per-
formance has been evaluated with 10-
fold cross validation.  The experimental 
results show that a precision of nearly 
50% and a recall of around 20% are 
achieved.  Since the goal of this paper is 
event frame extraction, rather than event 
instance extraction, the issue of low re-
call could be solved by applying the 
methods to a larger-scale corpus. 
1 