
Recognizing analogies, synonyms, anto-
nyms, and associations appear to be four
distinct tasks, requiring distinct NLP al-
gorithms. In the past, the four tasks have
been treated independently, using a wide
variety of algorithms. These four seman-
tic classes, however, are a tiny sample of
the full range of semantic phenomena, and
we cannot afford to create ad hoc algo-
rithms for each semantic phenomenon; we
need to seek a unified approach. We pro-
pose to subsume a broad range of phenom-
ena under analogies. To limit the scope of
this paper, we restrict our attention to the
subsumption of synonyms, antonyms, and
associations. We introduce a supervised
corpus-based machine learning algorithm
for classifying analogous word pairs, and
we show that it can solve multiple-choice
SAT analogy questions, TOEFL synonym
questions, ESL synonym-antonym ques-
tions, and similar-associated-both ques-
tions from cognitive psychology.
1 