
In this paper we describe an empirical
study of human-human multi-tasking dia-
logues (MTD), where people perform mul-
tiple verbal tasks overlapped in time. We
examined how conversants switch from the
ongoing task to a real-time task. We found
that 1) conversants use discourse markers
and prosodic cues to signal task switch-
ing, similar to how they signal topic shifts
in single-tasking speech; 2) conversants
strive to switch tasks at a less disruptive
place; and 3) where they cannot, they ex-
ert additional effort (even higher pitch) to
signal the task switching. Our machine
learning experiment also shows that task
switching can be reliably recognized using
discourse context and normalized pitch.
These findings will provide guidelines for
building future speech interfaces to sup-
port multi-tasking dialogue.
1 