
Bracketing Transduction Grammar (BTG)
is a natural choice for effective integration
of desired linguistic knowledge into sta-
tistical machine translation (SMT). In this
paper, we propose a Linguistically Anno-
tated BTG (LABTG) for SMT. It conveys
linguistic knowledge of source-side syn-
tax structures to BTG hierarchical struc-
tures through linguistic annotation. From
the linguistically annotated data, we learn
annotated BTG rules and train linguisti-
cally motivated phrase translation model
and reordering model. We also present an
annotation algorithm that captures syntac-
tic information for BTG nodes. The ex-
periments show that the LABTG approach
significantly outperforms a baseline BTG-
based system and a state-of-the-art phrase-
based system on the NISTMT-05 Chinese-
to-English translation task. Moreover, we
empirically demonstrate that the proposed
method achieves better translation selec-
tion and phrase reordering.
1 