? 
Most data-driven dependency parsing 
approaches assume that sentence struc-
ture is represented as trees. Although 
trees have several desirable properties 
from both computational and linguistic 
perspectives, the structure of linguistic 
phenomena that goes beyond shallow 
syntax often cannot be fully captured by 
tree representations.  We present a pars-
ing approach that is nearly as simple as 
current data-driven transition-based de-
pendency parsing frameworks, but out-
puts directed acyclic graphs (DAGs). We 
demonstrate the benefits of DAG parsing 
in two experiments where its advantages 
over dependency tree parsing can be 
clearly observed: predicate-argument 
analysis of English and syntactic analysis 
of Danish with a representation that in-
cludes long-distance dependencies and 
anaphoric reference links.  
1 