 tra
Statistical machine translation systems 
are usually trained on large amounts of 
bilingual text and monolingual text. In 
this paper, we propose a method to per-
form domain adaptation for statistical 
machine translation, where in-domain bi-
lingual corpora do not exist. This method 
first uses out-of-domain corpora to train a 
baseline system and then uses in-domain 
translation dictionaries and in-domain 
monolingual corpora to improve the in-
domain performance. We propose an al-
gorithm to combine these different re-
sources in a unified framework. Experi-
mental results indicate that our method 
achieves absolute improvements of 8.16 
and 3.36 BLEU scores on Chinese to 
English translation and English to French 
translation respectively, as compared 
with the baselines using only out-of-
domain corpora. 
1 