
Treating classification as seeking minimum
cuts in the appropriate graph has proven ef-
fective in a number of applications. The
power of this approach lies in its abil-
ity to incorporate label-agreement prefer-
ences among pairs of instances in a prov-
ably tractable way. Label disagreement
preferences are another potentially rich
source of information, but prior NLP work
within the minimum-cut paradigm has not
explicitly incorporated it. Here, we re-
port on work in progress that examines
several novel heuristics for incorporating
such information. Our results, produced
within the context of a politically-oriented
sentiment-classification task, demonstrate
that these heuristics allow for the addition
of label-disagreement information in a way
that improves classification accuracy while
preserving the efficiency guarantees of the
minimum-cut framework.
1 