 
This paper proposes a method for auto-
matic POS (part-of-speech) guessing of 
Chinese unknown words. It contains two 
models. The first model uses a machine-
learning method to predict the POS of 
unknown words based on their internal 
component features. The credibility of 
the results of the first model is then 
measured. For low-credibility words, the 
second model is used to revise the first 
model?s results based on the global con-
text information of those words. The ex-
periments show that the first model 
achieves 93.40% precision for all words 
and 86.60% for disyllabic words, which 
is a significant improvement over the 
best results reported in previous studies, 
which were 89% precision for all words 
and 74% for disyllabic words. Further, 
the second model improves the results by 
0.80% precision for all words and 1.30% 
for disyllabic words. ? 
1 