 
Many reordering approaches have been 
proposed for the statistical machine 
translation (SMT) system. However, the 
information about the type of source 
sentence is ignored in the previous 
works. In this paper, we propose a group 
of novel reordering models based on the 
source sentence type for Chinese-to-
English translation. In our approach, an 
SVM-based classifier is employed to 
classify the given Chinese sentences into 
three types: special interrogative sen-
tences, other interrogative sentences, and 
non-question sentences. The different 
reordering models are developed ori-
ented to the different sentence types. 
Our experiments show that the novel re-
ordering models have obtained an im-
provement of more than 2.65% in BLEU 
for a phrase-based spoken language 
translation system.  
1 