
We study the self-organization of the con-
sonant inventories through a complex net-
work approach. We observe that the dis-
tribution of occurrence as well as co-
occurrence of the consonants across lan-
guages follow a power-law behavior. The
co-occurrence network of consonants ex-
hibits a high clustering coefficient. We
propose four novel synthesis models for
these networks (each of which is a refine-
ment of the earlier) so as to successively
match with higher accuracy (a) the above
mentioned topological properties as well
as (b) the linguistic property of feature
economy exhibited by the consonant inven-
tories. We conclude by arguing that a pos-
sible interpretation of this mechanism of
network growth is the process of child lan-
guage acquisition. Such models essentially
increase our understanding of the struc-
ture of languages that is influenced by their
evolutionary dynamics and this, in turn,
can be extremely useful for building future
NLP applications.
1 