 
It is difficult to identify sentence impor-
tance from a single point of view. In this 
paper, we propose a learning-based ap-
proach to combine various sentence fea-
tures. They are categorized as surface, 
content, relevance and event features. 
Surface features are related to extrinsic 
aspects of a sentence. Content features 
measure a sentence based on content-
conveying words. Event features repre-
sent sentences by events they contained. 
Relevance features evaluate a sentence 
from its relatedness with other sentences. 
Experiments show that the combined fea-
tures improved summarization perform-
ance significantly. Although the evalua-
tion results are encouraging, supervised 
learning approach requires much labeled 
data. Therefore we investigate co-training 
by combining labeled and unlabeled data. 
Experiments show that this semi-
supervised learning approach achieves 
comparable performance to its supervised 
counterpart and saves about half of the 
labeling time cost. 
1 