
A great deal of information on the Web is
represented in both textual and structured
form. The structured form is machine-
readable and can be used to augment the
textual data. We call this augmentation
? the annotation of texts with relations
that are included in the structured data ?
self-annotation. In this paper, we intro-
duce self-annotation as a new supervised
learning approach for developing and im-
plementing a system that extracts fine-
grained relations between entities. The
main benefit of self-annotation is that it
does not require manual labeling. The in-
put of the learned model is a represen-
tation of the free text, its output struc-
tured relations. Thus, the model, once
learned, can be applied to any arbitrary
free text. We describe the challenges for
the self-annotation process and give re-
sults for a sample relation extraction sys-
tem. To deal with the challenge of fine-
grained relations, we implement and eval-
uate both shallow and deep linguistic anal-
ysis, focusing on German.
1 