 
Position information has been proved to 
be very effective in document 
summarization, especially in generic 
summarization. Existing approaches 
mostly consider the information of 
sentence positions in a document, based 
on a sentence position hypothesis that 
the importance of a sentence decreases 
with its distance from the beginning of 
the document. In this paper, we consider 
another kind of position information, i.e., 
the word position information, which is 
based on the ordinal positions of word 
appearances instead of sentence 
positions. An extractive summarization 
model is proposed to provide an 
evaluation framework for the position 
information. The resulting systems are 
evaluated on various data sets to 
demonstrate the effectiveness of the 
position information in different 
summarization tasks. Experimental 
results show that word position 
information is more effective and 
adaptive than sentence position 
information. 
1 