
Visually and phonologically similar cha-
racters are major contributing factors for 
errors in Chinese text. By defining ap-
propriate similarity measures that consid-
er extended Cangjie codes, we can identi-
fy visually similar characters within a 
fraction of a second. Relying on the pro-
nunciation information noted for individ-
ual characters in Chinese lexicons, we 
can compute a list of characters that are 
phonologically similar to a given charac-
ter. We collected 621 incorrect Chinese 
words reported on the Internet, and ana-
lyzed the causes of these errors. 83% of 
these errors were related to phonological 
similarity, and 48% of them were related 
to visual similarity between the involved 
characters. Generating the lists of phono-
logically and visually similar characters, 
our programs were able to contain more 
than 90% of the incorrect characters in 
the reported errors. 
1 