 
Polarity shifting marked by various 
linguistic structures has been a challenge 
to automatic sentiment classification. In 
this paper, we propose a machine learning 
approach to incorporate polarity shifting 
information into a document-level 
sentiment classification system. First, a 
feature selection method is adopted to 
automatically generate the training data 
for a binary classifier on polarity shifting 
detection of sentences. Then, by using the 
obtained binary classifier, each document 
in the original polarity classification 
training data is split into two partitions, 
polarity-shifted and polarity-unshifted, 
which are used to train two base 
classifiers respectively for further 
classifier combination. The experimental 
results across four different domains 
demonstrate the effectiveness of our 
approach. 
1 