 
This paper presents HCAMiner, a system 
focusing on detecting how concepts are 
linked across multiple documents. A tra-
ditional search involving, for example, 
two person names will attempt to find 
documents mentioning both these indi-
viduals. This research focuses on a dif-
ferent interpretation of such a query: 
what is the best concept chain across 
multiple documents that connects these 
individuals? A new robust framework is 
presented, based on (i) generating con-
cept association graphs, a hybrid content 
representation, (ii) performing concept 
chain queries (CCQ) to discover candi-
date chains, and (iii) subsequently rank-
ing chains according to the significance 
of relationships suggested. These func-
tionalities are implemented using an in-
teractive visualization paradigm which 
assists users for a better understanding 
and interpretation of discovered relation-
ships. 
1 