
This paper presents a new approach to im-
proving relation extraction based on min-
imally supervised learning. By adding
some limited closed-world knowledge for
confidence estimation of learned rules to
the usual seed data, the precision of re-
lation extraction can be considerably im-
proved. Starting from an existing base-
line system we demonstrate that utilizing
limited closed world knowledge can ef-
fectively eliminate ?dangerous? or plainly
wrong rules during the bootstrapping pro-
cess. The new method improves the re-
liability of the confidence estimation and
the precision value of the extracted in-
stances. Although recall suffers to a cer-
tain degree depending on the domain and
the selected settings, the overall perfor-
mance measured by F-score considerably
improves. Finally we validate the adapt-
ability of the best ranking method to a new
domain and obtain promising results.
1 