 
In this paper, we describe a SVM classi-
fication framework of session detection 
task on both Chinese and English query 
logs. With eight features on the aspects 
of temporal and content information ex-
tracted from pairs of successive queries, 
the classification models achieve signifi-
cantly superior performance than the stat-
of-the-art method. Additionally, we find 
through ROC analysis that there exists 
great discrimination power variability 
among different features and within the 
same feature across different users. To 
fully utilize this variability, we build lo-
cal models for individual users and com-
bine their predictions with those from the 
global model. Experiments show that the 
local models do make significant im-
provements to the global model, although 
the amount is small. 
1 