 
In this paper, we propose an 
unsupervised approach to automatically 
synthesize Wikipedia articles in 
multiple languages. Taking an existing 
high-quality version of any entry as 
content guideline, we extract keywords 
from it and use the translated keywords 
to query the monolingual web of the 
target language. Candidate excerpts or 
sentences are selected based on an 
iterative ranking function and 
eventually synthesized into a complete 
article that resembles the reference 
version closely. 16 English and Chinese 
articles across 5 domains are evaluated 
to show that our algorithm is domain-
independent. Both subjective 
evaluations by native Chinese readers 
and ROUGE-L scores computed with 
respect to standard reference articles 
demonstrate that synthesized articles 
outperform existing Chinese versions or 
MT texts in both content richness and 
readability. In practice our method can 
generate prototype texts for Wikipedia 
that facilitate later human authoring. 
1 