 
Tibetan word segmentation is essential 
for Tibetan information processing. Peo-
ple mainly use the basic machine match-
ing method which is based on dictionary 
to segment Tibetan words at present, 
because there is no segmented Tibetan 
corpus which can be used for training in 
Tibetan word segmentation. But the 
method based on dictionary is not fit to 
Tibetan number identification. This pa-
per studies the characteristics of Tibetan 
numbers, and then, proposes a method 
to identify Tibetan numbers based on 
classification of number components. 
The method first tags every number 
component according to the class it be-
longs to while segmenting, and then up-
dates the tag series according to some 
predefined rules. At last adjacent num-
ber components are combined to form a 
Tibetan number if they meet a certain 
requirement. In the testing result from 
7938K Tibetan corpus, the identification 
accuracy is 99.21%. 
1 