 
String-based metrics of automatic ma-
chine translation (MT) evaluation are 
widely applied in MT research. Mean-
while, some linguistic motivated me-
trics have been suggested to improve 
the string-based metrics in sentence-
level evaluation. In this work, we at-
tempt to change their original calcula-
tion units (granularities) of string-based 
metrics to generate new features. We 
then propose a powerful string-based 
automatic MT evaluation metric, com-
bining all the features with various 
granularities based on SVM rank and 
regression models. The experimental 
results show that i) the new features 
with various granularities can contri-
bute to the automatic evaluation of 
translation quality; ii) our proposed 
string-based metrics with multiple gra-
nularities based on SVM regression 
model can achieve higher correlations 
with human assessments than the state-
of-art  automatic metrics. 
1 