
Word relation features, which encode 
relation information between words, are 
supposed to be effective features for 
sentiment classification. However, the 
use of word relation features suffers 
from two issues. One is the sparse-data 
problem and the lack of generalization 
performance; the other is the limitation 
of using word relations as additional 
features to unigrams. To address the two 
issues, we propose a generalized word 
relation feature extraction method and 
an ensemble model to efficiently inte-
grate unigrams and different type of 
word relation features. Furthermore, 
aimed at reducing the computation 
complexity, we propose two fast feature 
selection methods that are specially de-
signed for word relation features. A 
range of experiments are conducted to 
evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency 
of our approaches. 
1 