
Plagiarism, the unacknowledged reuse of
text, does not end at language boundaries.
Cross-language plagiarism occurs if a text
is translated from a fragment written in a
different language and no proper citation
is provided. Regardless of the change of
language, the contents and, in particular,
the ideas remain the same. Whereas dif-
ferent methods for the detection of mono-
lingual plagiarism have been developed,
less attention has been paid to the cross-
language case.
In this paper we compare two recently
proposed cross-language plagiarism de-
tection methods (CL-CNG, based on char-
acter n-grams and CL-ASA, based on sta-
tistical translation), to a novel approach
to this problem, based on machine trans-
lation and monolingual similarity analy-
sis (T+MA). We explore the effectiveness
of the three approaches for less related
languages. CL-CNG shows not be ap-
propriate for this kind of language pairs,
whereas T+MA performs better than the
previously proposed models.
1 