
We present a transformation scheme that me-
diates between description logics (DL) or
RDF-encoded ontologies and type hierar-
chies in feature logics (FL). The DL-to-FL
direction is illustrated by an implemented
offline procedure that maps ontologies with
large, dynamically maintained instance data
to named entity (NE) and information ex-
traction (IE) resources encoded in typed fea-
ture structures. The FL-to-DL translation is
exemplified by a (currently manual) trans-
lation of so-called MRS (Minimal Recur-
sion Semantics) representations into OWL
instances that are based on OWL classes,
generated from the the type hierarchy of a
deep linguistic grammar. The paper will
identify parts of knowledge which can be
translated from one formalism into the other
without loosing information and parts which
can only be approximated. The work de-
scribed here is important for the Seman-
tic Web to become a reality, since semantic
annotations of natural language documents
(DL) can be automatically generated by shal-
low and deep natural language parsing sys-
tems (FL).
1 