 
In this paper, we explore a CLIR-based  
approach to construct large-scale Chi-
nese-English comparable corpora, which 
is valuable for translation knowledge 
mining. The initial source and target 
document sets are crawled from news 
website and standardized uniformly. 
Keywords are extracted from the source 
document firstly, and then the extracted 
keywords are translated and combined as 
query words through certain criteria to 
retrieve against the index created using 
target document set. Meanwhile, the 
mapping correlations between source and 
target documents are developed accord-
ing to the value of similarity calculated 
by the retrieval tool. Two methods are 
evaluated to filter the comparable docu-
ment pairs so as to ensure the quality of 
the comparable corpora. Experimental re-
sults indicate that our approach is effec-
tive on the construction of Chinese-
English comparable corpora. 
1 