 
Ambiguity of entity mentions and con-
cept references is a challenge to mining 
text beyond surface-level keywords. We 
describe an effective method of disambi-
guating surface forms and resolving them 
to Wikipedia entities and concepts. Our 
method employs an extensive set of fea-
tures mined from Wikipedia and other 
large data sources, and combines the fea-
tures using a machine learning approach 
with automatically generated training da-
ta. Based on a manually labeled evalua-
tion set containing over 1000 news ar-
ticles, our resolution model has 85% pre-
cision and 87.8% recall. The performance 
is significantly better than three baselines 
based on traditional context similarities 
or sense commonness measurements. Our 
method can be applied to other languages 
and scales well to new entities and con-
cepts. 
1 