
Zulu is an indigenous language of South
Africa, and one of the eleven official
languages of that country. It is spoken
by about 11 million speakers. Although
it is similar in size to some Western
languages, e.g. Swedish, it is consid-
erably under-resourced. This paper
presents a new open-source morphologi-
cal corpus for Zulu named Ukwabelana
corpus. We describe the agglutinating
morphology of Zulu with its multiple
prefixation and suffixation, and also
introduce our labeling scheme. Further,
the annotation process is described and
all single resources are explained. These
comprise a list of 10,000 labeled and
100,000 unlabeled word types, 3,000
part-of-speech (POS) tagged and 30,000
raw sentences as well as a morphological
Zulu grammar, and a parsing algorithm
which hypothesizes possible word roots
and enumerates parses that conform to the
Zulu grammar. We also provide a POS
tagger which assigns the grammatical
category to a morphologically analyzed
word type. As it is hoped that the corpus
and all resources will be of benefit to
any person doing research on Zulu or on
computer-aided analysis of languages,
they will be made available in the public
domain from http://www.cs.bris.
ac.uk/Research/MachineLearning/
Morphology/Resources/.
1 