 
Annotating scientific publications with 
keywords and phrases is of great 
importance to searching, indexing, and 
cataloging such documents. Unlike 
previous studies that focused on user-
centric annotation, this paper presents our 
investigation of various annotation 
characteristics on service-centric anno-
tation. Using a large number of publicly 
available annotated scientific publica-
tions, we characterized and compared the 
two different types of annotation 
processes. Furthermore, we developed an 
automatic approach of annotating 
scientific publications based on a 
machine learning algorithm and a set of 
novel features. When compared to other 
methods, our approach shows significant-
ly improved performance. Experimental 
data sets and evaluation results are pub-
licly available at the supplementary web-
site1. 
1 