
Coreference resolution is a classic NLP 
problem and has been studied extensively by 
many researchers. Most existing studies, 
however, are generic in the sense that they 
are not focused on any specific text. In the 
past few years, opinion mining became a 
popular topic of research because of a wide 
range of applications. However, limited 
work has been done on coreference resolu-
tion in opinionated text. In this paper, we 
deal with object and attribute coreference 
resolution. Such coreference resolutions are 
important because without solving it a great 
deal of opinion information will be lost, and 
opinions may be assigned to wrong entities. 
We show that some important features re-
lated to opinions can be exploited to perform 
the task more accurately. Experimental re-
sults using blog posts demonstrate the effec-
tiveness of the technique.
1 