 
In this paper we explore the possibility of 
using cross lingual projections that help 
to automatically induce role-semantic 
annotations in the PropBank paradigm 
for Urdu, a resource poor language. This 
technique provides annotation projections 
based on word alignments. It is relatively 
inexpensive and has the potential to re-
duce human effort involved in creating 
semantic role resources. The projection 
model exploits lexical as well as syntac-
tic information on an English-Urdu paral-
lel corpus. We show that our method ge-
nerates reasonably good annotations with 
an accuracy of 92% on short structured 
sentences. Using the automatically gen-
erated annotated corpus, we conduct pre-
liminary experiments to create a semantic 
role labeler for Urdu. The results of the 
labeler though modest, are promising and 
indicate the potential of our technique to 
generate large scale annotations for Urdu.  
1 