
The detailed analyses of sentence struc-
ture provided by parsers have been applied
to address several information extraction
tasks. In a recent bio-molecular event ex-
traction task, state-of-the-art performance
was achieved by systems building specif-
ically on dependency representations of
parser output. While intrinsic evalua-
tions have shown significant advances in
both general and domain-specific pars-
ing, the question of how these translate
into practical advantage is seldom con-
sidered. In this paper, we analyze how
event extraction performance is affected
by parser and dependency representation,
further considering the relation between
intrinsic evaluation and performance at
the extraction task. We find that good
intrinsic evaluation results do not always
imply good extraction performance, and
that the types and structures of differ-
ent dependency representations have spe-
cific advantages and disadvantages for the
event extraction task.
1 