 
This paper proposes an efficient l inguistic 
processing strategy for speech recognition and 
understanding using a dependency structure grammar. 
The strategy includes parsing and phrase prediction 
algorithms. After speech processing and phrase 
recognition based on phoneme recognition, the parser 
extracts the sentence with the best likelihood taking 
account of the phonetic l ikelihood of phrase 
candidates and the linguistic likelihood of the 
semantic inter-phrase dependency relationships. A 
fast parsing algorithm using breadth-first search is 
also proposed. The predictor pre-selects the p}~.ase 
candidates using transition rules combined with a 
dependency structure to reduce the amount of phonetic 
processing. The proposed linguistic processor has 
been tested through speech recognition experiments. 
The experimental results show that it greatly 
increases the accuracy of speech recognitions, and 
the breadth-first parsing algorithm and predictor 
increase processing speed. 
1. 