 
This paper describes Word Manager, a system which 
is currently the object of a research project at the 
University of Zfirich Computer Science Department. 
Word Manager supports the definition, access and 
maintenance  of lexical databases.  It comprises a 
formal  language for the imp lemenat ion  of 
morphological knowledge. This formal language is 
integrated in a graphics-oriented, high-level user 
Interface and is language independent. The project is 
now in the prototyping phase where parts of the 
software are pretty far advanced (the user interface) 
and  .others are sti l l  rud imentary  (the rule 
compi lcr /runt ime system). The design of the system 
was strongly inf luenced by Koskenniemi's two-level 
model /Koskenniemi  1983/,  its successors /Bear  
1986/,  /B lack  1986/,  /Bor in 1986/,  /Darymple 
1987/, the ANSI-SPARC 3-Schema Concept /ANSI- 
X3-SPARC 1975/ and visual programming techniques 
/Bocker 1986/,  /Myers 1986/: We will focus the 
discussion on one aspect: the user interfacing for the 
construction of the lexlcal data base. 
I. 