: The paper deals with the integration of 
intonation algorithms into a concept-to-speech 
system for German 1). The algorithm for 
computing the stress hierarchy of a sentence 
introduced by Kiparski (1973) and the theory of 
syntactic grouping for intonation patterns 
developed by Bierwisch (1973) have been studied 
extensively, but they have never been implemented 
in a concept-to-speech system like the one 
presented here. We describe the back end of this 
concept-to-speech system: The surface generator 
transfers a hierarchical dependency structure of a 
sentence into a phoneme string by traversing it in a 
recurs~ve-descent manner. Surface structures 
unfold while generation proceeds,  which means 
that at no point of the process does the full 
syntactic tree structure xist. As they depend on 
syntactic features, both the indices introduced by 
the Kiparski (degrees of stress) and the Bierwisch 
(indexed border markers) formalism have to be 
inserted by the generator. This  implies some 
changes to the original algorithms, which are 
demonstrated in this paper. The generator has 
been tested in the domain of an expert system that 
helps to debug electronic ircuits. The synthesized 
utterances of the test domain show significant 
improvements over monotonous forms of speech 
produced by systems not making use of intonation 
information. 
1. 