
In this paper we explore the use of se-
lectional preferences for detecting non-
compositional verb-object combinations. To
characterise the arguments in a given gram-
matical relationship we experiment with
three models of selectional preference. Two
use WordNet and one uses the entries from
a distributional thesaurus as classes for rep-
resentation. In previous work on selectional
preference acquisition, the classes used for
representation are selected according to the
coverage of argument tokens rather than be-
ing selected according to the coverage of
argument types. In our distributional the-
saurus models and one of the methods us-
ing WordNet we select classes for represent-
ing the preferences by virtue of the number
of argument types that they cover, and then
only tokens under these classes which are
representative of the argument head data are
used to estimate the probability distribution
for the selectional preference model. We
demonstrate a highly significant correlation
between measures which use these ?type-
based? selectional preferences and composi-
tionality judgements from a data set used in
previous research. The type-based models
perform better than the models which use to-
kens for selecting the classes. Furthermore,
the models which use the automatically ac-
quired thesaurus entries produced the best
results. The correlation for the thesaurus
models is stronger than any of the individ-
ual features used in previous research on the
same dataset.
1 