
Many systems for tasks such as question answer-
ing, multi-document summarization, and infor-
mation retrieval need robust numerical measures
of lexical relatedness. Standard thesaurus-based
measures of word pair similarity are based on
only a single path between those words in the
thesaurus graph. By contrast, we propose a new
model of lexical semantic relatedness that incor-
porates information from every explicit or im-
plicit path connecting the two words in the en-
tire graph. Our model uses a random walk over
nodes and edges derived from WordNet links
and corpus statistics. We treat the graph as a
Markov chain and compute a word-specific sta-
tionary distribution via a generalized PageRank
algorithm. Semantic relatedness of a word pair is
scored by a novel divergence measure, ZKL, that
outperforms existing measures on certain classes
of distributions. In our experiments, the resulting
relatedness measure is the WordNet-based mea-
sure most highly correlated with human similar-
ity judgments by rank ordering at ? = .90.
1 