
The alignment problem?establishing links
between corresponding phrases in two related
sentences?is as important in natural language
inference (NLI) as it is in machine transla-
tion (MT). But the tools and techniques of
MT alignment do not readily transfer to NLI,
where one cannot assume semantic equiva-
lence, and for which large volumes of bitext
are lacking. We present a new NLI aligner,
the MANLI system, designed to address these
challenges. It uses a phrase-based alignment
representation, exploits external lexical re-
sources, and capitalizes on a new set of su-
pervised training data. We compare the per-
formance of MANLI to existing NLI and MT
aligners on an NLI alignment task over the
well-known Recognizing Textual Entailment
data. We show that MANLI significantly out-
performs existing aligners, achieving gains of
6.2% in F1 over a representative NLI aligner
and 10.5% over GIZA++.
1 