 
The graph-based ranking algorithm has been 
recently exploited for multi-document sum-
marization by making only use of the sen-
tence-to-sentence relationships in the 
documents, under the assumption that all the 
sentences are indistinguishable. However, 
given a document set to be summarized, dif-
ferent documents are usually not equally im-
portant, and moreover, different sentences in a 
specific document are usually differently im-
portant. This paper aims to explore document 
impact on summarization performance. We 
propose a document-based graph model to in-
corporate the document-level information and 
the sentence-to-document relationship into the 
graph-based ranking process. Various meth-
ods are employed to evaluate the two factors.  
Experimental results on the DUC2001 and 
DUC2002 datasets demonstrate that the good 
effectiveness of the proposed model. More-
over, the results show the robustness of the 
proposed model. 
1 