 
It is a challenging task to identify sentiment 
polarity of Chinese reviews because the re-
sources for Chinese sentiment analysis are 
limited. Instead of leveraging only monolin-
gual Chinese knowledge, this study proposes a 
novel approach to leverage reliable English 
resources to improve Chinese sentiment 
analysis. Rather than simply projecting Eng-
lish resources onto Chinese resources, our ap-
proach first translates Chinese reviews into 
English reviews by machine translation ser-
vices, and then identifies the sentiment polar-
ity of English reviews by directly leveraging 
English resources. Furthermore, our approach 
performs sentiment analysis for both Chinese 
reviews and English reviews, and then uses 
ensemble methods to combine the individual 
analysis results. Experimental results on a 
dataset of 886 Chinese product reviews dem-
onstrate the effectiveness of the proposed ap-
proach. The individual analysis of the 
translated English reviews outperforms the in-
dividual analysis of the original Chinese re-
views, and the combination of the individual 
analysis results further improves the perform-
ance.  
1 