 
 
This paper presents a parse-and-paraphrase pa-
radigm to assess the degrees of sentiment for 
product reviews. Sentiment identification has 
been well studied; however, most previous 
work provides binary polarities only (positive 
and negative), and the polarity of sentiment is 
simply reversed when a negation is detected. 
The extraction of lexical features such as uni-
gram/bigram also complicates the sentiment 
classification task, as linguistic structure such 
as implicit long-distance dependency is often 
disregarded. In this paper, we propose an ap-
proach to extracting adverb-adjective-noun 
phrases based on clause structure obtained by 
parsing sentences into a hierarchical represen-
tation. We also propose a robust general solu-
tion for modeling the contribution of adver-
bials and negation to the score for degree of 
sentiment. In an application involving extract-
ing aspect-based pros and cons from restaurant 
reviews, we obtained a 45% relative improve-
ment in recall through the use of parsing me-
thods, while also improving precision. 
 
1 