
Strictly corpus-based measures of seman-
tic distance conflate co-occurrence infor-
mation pertaining to the many possible
senses of target words. We propose a
corpus?thesaurus hybrid method that uses
soft constraints to generate word-sense-
aware distributional profiles (DPs) from
coarser ?concept DPs? (derived from a
Roget-like thesaurus) and sense-unaware
traditional word DPs (derived from raw
text). Although it uses a knowledge
source, the method is not vocabulary-
limited: if the target word is not in the
thesaurus, the method falls back grace-
fully on the word?s co-occurrence infor-
mation. This allows the method to access
valuable information encoded in a lexical
resource, such as a thesaurus, while still
being able to effectively handle domain-
specific terms and named entities. Exper-
iments on word-pair ranking by semantic
distance show the new hybrid method to
be superior to others.
1 