 
In this paper we address the problem of identi-
fying a broad range of term variations in Japa-
nese web search queries, where these varia-
tions pose a particularly thorny problem due to 
the multiple character types employed in its 
writing system. Our method extends the tech-
niques proposed for English spelling correc-
tion of web queries to handle a wider range of 
term variants including spelling mistakes, va-
lid alternative spellings using multiple charac-
ter types, transliterations and abbreviations. 
The core of our method is a statistical model 
built on the MART algorithm (Friedman, 
2001). We show that both string and semantic 
similarity features contribute to identifying 
term variation in web search queries; specifi-
cally, the semantic similarity features used in 
our system are learned by mining user session 
and click-through logs, and are useful not only 
as model features but also in generating term 
variation candidates efficiently. The proposed 
method achieves 70% precision on the term 
variation identification task with the recall 
slightly higher than 60%, reducing the error 
rate of a na?ve baseline by 38%.  
1 