
There have been increasing needs for task
specific rankings in web search such as
rankings for specific query segments like
long queries, time-sensitive queries, navi-
gational queries, etc; or rankings for spe-
cific domains/contents like answers, blogs,
news, etc. In the spirit of ?divide-and-
conquer?, task specific ranking may have
potential advantages over generic ranking
since different tasks have task-specific fea-
tures, data distributions, as well as feature-
grade correlations. A critical problem for
the task-specific ranking is training data
insufficiency, which may be solved by us-
ing the data extracted from click log. This
paper empirically studies how to appro-
priately exploit click data to improve rank
function learning in task-specific ranking.
The main contributions are 1) the explo-
ration on the utilities of two promising ap-
proaches for click pair extraction; 2) the
analysis of the role played by the noise
information which inevitably appears in
click data extraction; 3) the appropriate
strategy for combining training data and
click data; 4) the comparison of click data
which are consistent and inconsistent with
baseline function.
1 