
We present a discriminative substring de-
coder for transliteration. This decoder
extends recent approaches for discrimi-
native character transduction by allow-
ing for a list of known target-language
words, an important resource for translit-
eration. Our approach improves upon
Sherif and Kondrak?s (2007b) state-of-the-
art decoder, creating a 28.5% relative im-
provement in transliteration accuracy on
a Japanese katakana-to-English task. We
also conduct a controlled comparison of
two feature paradigms for discriminative
training: indicators and hybrid generative
features. Surprisingly, the generative hy-
brid outperforms its purely discriminative
counterpart, despite losing access to rich
source-context features. Finally, we show
that machine transliterations have a posi-
tive impact on machine translation quality,
improving human judgments by 0.5 on a
4-point scale.
1 