 
Bilingual dictionaries are vital resources in 
many areas of natural language processing. 
Numerous methods of machine translation re-
quire bilingual dictionaries with large cover-
age, but less-frequent language pairs rarely 
have any digitalized resources. Since the need 
for these resources is increasing, but the hu-
man resources are scarce for less represented 
languages, efficient automatized methods are 
needed. This paper introduces a fully auto-
mated, robust pivot language based bilingual 
dictionary generation method that uses the 
WordNet of the pivot language to build a new 
bilingual dictionary. We propose the usage of 
WordNet in order to increase accuracy; we 
also introduce a bidirectional selection method 
with a flexible threshold to maximize recall. 
Our evaluations showed 79% accuracy and 
51% weighted recall, outperforming represen-
tative pivot language based methods. A dic-
tionary generated with this method will still 
need manual post-editing, but the improved 
recall and precision decrease the work of hu-
man correctors. 
1 