
Jointly parsing two languages has been
shown to improve accuracies on either or
both sides. However, its search space is
much bigger than the monolingual case,
forcing existing approaches to employ
complicated modeling and crude approxi-
mations. Here we propose a much simpler
alternative, bilingually-constrained mono-
lingual parsing, where a source-language
parser learns to exploit reorderings as ad-
ditional observation, but not bothering to
build the target-side tree as well. We show
specifically how to enhance a shift-reduce
dependency parser with alignment fea-
tures to resolve shift-reduce conflicts. Ex-
periments on the bilingual portion of Chi-
nese Treebank show that, with just 3 bilin-
gual features, we can improve parsing ac-
curacies by 0.6% (absolute) for both En-
glish and Chinese over a state-of-the-art
baseline, with negligible (?6%) efficiency
overhead, thus much faster than biparsing.
1 