
Sets of lexical items sharing a significant
aspect of their meaning (concepts) are fun-
damental in linguistics and NLP. Manual
concept compilation is labor intensive, er-
ror prone and subjective. We present a
web-based concept extension algorithm.
Given a set of terms specifying a concept
in some language, we translate them to
a wide range of intermediate languages,
disambiguate the translations using web
counts, and discover additional concept
terms using symmetric patterns. We then
translate the discovered terms back into
the original language, score them, and ex-
tend the original concept by adding back-
translations having high scores. We eval-
uate our method in 3 source languages and
45 intermediate languages, using both hu-
man judgments and WordNet. In all cases,
our cross-lingual algorithm significantly
improves high quality concept extension.
1 