 
Statistical bilingual word alignment has been 
well studied in the context of machine trans-
lation. This paper adapts the bilingual word 
alignment algorithm to monolingual scenario 
to extract collocations from monolingual cor-
pus. The monolingual corpus is first repli-
cated to generate a parallel corpus, where 
each sentence pair consists of two identical 
sentences in the same language. Then the 
monolingual word alignment algorithm is 
employed to align the potentially collocated 
words in the monolingual sentences. Finally 
the aligned word pairs are ranked according 
to refined alignment probabilities and those 
with higher scores are extracted as colloca-
tions. We conducted experiments using Chi-
nese and English corpora individually. Com-
pared with previous approaches, which use 
association measures to extract collocations 
from the co-occurring word pairs within a 
given window, our method achieves higher 
precision and recall. According to human 
evaluation in terms of precision, our method 
achieves absolute improvements of 27.9% on 
the Chinese corpus and 23.6% on the English 
corpus, respectively. Especially, we can ex-
tract collocations with longer spans, achiev-
ing a high precision of 69% on the long-span 
(>6) Chinese collocations. 
1 