
This paper studies the problem of mining en-
tity translation, specifically, mining English
and Chinese name pairs. Existing efforts
can be categorized into (a) a transliteration-
based approach leveraging phonetic similar-
ity and (b) a corpus-based approach exploiting
bilingual co-occurrences, each of which suf-
fers from inaccuracy and scarcity respectively.
In clear contrast, we use unleveraged re-
sources of monolingual entity co-occurrences,
crawled from entity search engines, repre-
sented as two entity-relationship graphs ex-
tracted from two language corpora respec-
tively. Our problem is then abstracted as find-
ing correct mappings across two graphs. To
achieve this goal, we propose a holistic ap-
proach, of exploiting both transliteration sim-
ilarity and monolingual co-occurrences. This
approach, building upon monolingual corpora,
complements existing corpus-based work, re-
quiring scarce resources of parallel or compa-
rable corpus, while significantly boosting the
accuracy of transliteration-based work. We
validate our proposed system using real-life
datasets.
1 