 
Almost all Chinese language processing tasks 
involve word segmentation of the language 
input as their first steps, thus robust and reli-
able segmentation techniques are always re-
quired to make sure those tasks well-
performed. In recent years, machine learning 
and sequence labeling models such as Condi-
tional Random Fields (CRFs) are often used in 
segmenting Chinese texts. Compared with 
traditional lexicon-driven models, machine 
learned models achieve higher F-measure 
scores. But machine learned models heavily 
depend on training materials. Although they 
can effectively process texts from the same 
domain as the training texts, they perform 
relatively poorly when texts from new do-
mains are to be processed. In this paper, we 
propose to use ?2 statistics when training an 
SVM-HMM based segmentation model to im-
prove its ability to recall OOV words and then 
use bootstrapping strategies to maintain its 
ability to recall IV words. Experiments show 
the approach proposed in this paper enhances 
the domain portability of the Chinese word 
segmentation model and prevents drastic de-
cline in performance when processing texts 
across domains. 
1 