
This work concerns automatic topic segmen-
tation of email conversations. We present a
corpus of email threads manually annotated
with topics, and evaluate annotator reliabil-
ity. To our knowledge, this is the first such
email corpus. We show how the existing topic
segmentation models (i.e., Lexical Chain Seg-
menter (LCSeg) and Latent Dirichlet Alloca-
tion (LDA)) which are solely based on lex-
ical information, can be applied to emails.
By pointing out where these methods fail and
what any desired model should consider, we
propose two novel extensions of the models
that not only use lexical information but also
exploit finer level conversation structure in a
principled way. Empirical evaluation shows
that LCSeg is a better model than LDA for
segmenting an email thread into topical clus-
ters and incorporating conversation structure
into these models improves the performance
significantly.
1 