
Part-of-speech (POS) induction is one of the
most popular tasks in research on unsuper-
vised NLP. Many different methods have been
proposed, yet comparisons are difficult to
make since there is little consensus on eval-
uation framework, and many papers evalu-
ate against only one or two competitor sys-
tems. Here we evaluate seven different POS
induction systems spanning nearly 20 years of
work, using a variety of measures. We show
that some of the oldest (and simplest) systems
stand up surprisingly well against more recent
approaches. Since most of these systems were
developed and tested using data from the WSJ
corpus, we compare their generalization abil-
ities by testing on both WSJ and the multi-
lingual Multext-East corpus. Finally, we in-
troduce the idea of evaluating systems based
on their ability to produce cluster prototypes
that are useful as input to a prototype-driven
learner. In most cases, the prototype-driven
learner outperforms the unsupervised system
used to initialize it, yielding state-of-the-art
results on WSJ and improvements on non-
English corpora.
1 