
In this paper, we investigate structured mod-
els for document-level sentiment classifica-
tion. When predicting the sentiment of a sub-
jective document (e.g., as positive or nega-
tive), it is well known that not all sentences
are equally discriminative or informative. But
identifying the useful sentences automatically
is itself a difficult learning problem. This pa-
per proposes a joint two-level approach for
document-level sentiment classification that
simultaneously extracts useful (i.e., subjec-
tive) sentences and predicts document-level
sentiment based on the extracted sentences.
Unlike previous joint learning methods for
the task, our approach (1) does not rely on
gold standard sentence-level subjectivity an-
notations (which may be expensive to obtain),
and (2) optimizes directly for document-level
performance. Empirical evaluations on movie
reviews and U.S. Congressional floor debates
show improved performance over previous ap-
proaches.
1 