
In recent years, the amount of user-generated
opinionated texts (e.g., reviews, user com-
ments) continues to grow at a rapid speed: fea-
tured news stories on a major event easily at-
tract thousands of user comments on a popular
online News service. How to consume subjec-
tive information of this volume becomes an in-
teresting and important research question. In
contrast to previous work on review analysis
that tried to filter or summarize information
for a generic average user, we explore a dif-
ferent direction of enabling personalized rec-
ommendation of such information.
For each user, our task is to rank the comments
associated with a given article according to
personalized user preference (i.e., whether the
user is likely to like or dislike the comment).
To this end, we propose a factor model that
incorporates rater-comment and rater-author
interactions simultaneously in a principled
way. Our full model significantly outperforms
strong baselines as well as related models that
have been considered in previous work.
1 