
We introduce a novel machine learning frame-
work based on recursive autoencoders for
sentence-level prediction of sentiment label
distributions. Our method learns vector space
representations for multi-word phrases. In
sentiment prediction tasks these represen-
tations outperform other state-of-the-art ap-
proaches on commonly used datasets, such as
movie reviews, without using any pre-defined
sentiment lexica or polarity shifting rules. We
also evaluate the model?s ability to predict
sentiment distributions on a new dataset based
on confessions from the experience project.
The dataset consists of personal user stories
annotated with multiple labels which, when
aggregated, form a multinomial distribution
that captures emotional reactions. Our al-
gorithm can more accurately predict distri-
butions over such labels compared to several
competitive baselines.
1 