
This paper proposes a semi-supervised rela-
tion acquisition method that does not rely on
extraction patterns (e.g. ?X causes Y? for
causal relations) but instead learns a combi-
nation of indirect evidence for the target re-
lation ? semantic word classes and partial
patterns. This method can extract long tail
instances of semantic relations like causality
from rare and complex expressions in a large
JapaneseWeb corpus? in extreme cases, pat-
terns that occur only once in the entire cor-
pus. Such patterns are beyond the reach of cur-
rent pattern based methods. We show that our
method performs on par with state-of-the-art
pattern based methods, and maintains a rea-
sonable level of accuracy even for instances
acquired from infrequent patterns. This abil-
ity to acquire long tail instances is crucial for
risk management and innovation, where an ex-
haustive database of high-level semantic rela-
tions like causation is of vital importance.
1 