
Argumentative Zoning (AZ) ? analysis of the
argumentative structure of a scientific paper ?
has proved useful for a number of informa-
tion access tasks. Current approaches to AZ
rely on supervised machine learning (ML).
Requiring large amounts of annotated data,
these approaches are expensive to develop and
port to different domains and tasks. A poten-
tial solution to this problem is to use weakly-
supervised ML instead. We investigate the
performance of four weakly-supervised clas-
sifiers on scientific abstract data annotated for
multiple AZ classes. Our best classifier based
on the combination of active learning and self-
training outperforms our best supervised clas-
sifier, yielding a high accuracy of 81% when
using just 10% of the labeled data. This re-
sult suggests that weakly-supervised learning
could be employed to improve the practical
applicability and portability of AZ across dif-
ferent information access tasks.
1 