
Biological processes are complex phenom-
ena involving a series of events that are re-
lated to one another through various relation-
ships. Systems that can understand and rea-
son over biological processes would dramat-
ically improve the performance of semantic
applications involving inference such as ques-
tion answering (QA) ? specifically ?How??
and ?Why?? questions. In this paper, we
present the task of process extraction, in
which events within a process and the rela-
tions between the events are automatically ex-
tracted from text. We represent processes by
graphs whose edges describe a set of temporal,
causal and co-reference event-event relations,
and characterize the structural properties of
these graphs (e.g., the graphs are connected).
Then, we present a method for extracting rela-
tions between the events, which exploits these
structural properties by performing joint in-
ference over the set of extracted relations.
On a novel dataset containing 148 descrip-
tions of biological processes (released with
this paper), we show significant improvement
comparing to baselines that disregard process
structure.
1 