
Traditional synchronous grammar induction
estimates parameters by maximizing likeli-
hood, which only has a loose relation to trans-
lation quality. Alternatively, we propose a
max-margin estimation approach to discrim-
inatively inducing synchronous grammars for
machine translation, which directly optimizes
translation quality measured by BLEU. In
the max-margin estimation of parameters, we
only need to calculate Viterbi translations.
This further facilitates the incorporation of
various non-local features that are defined on
the target side. We test the effectiveness of our
max-margin estimation framework on a com-
petitive hierarchical phrase-based system. Ex-
periments show that our max-margin method
significantly outperforms the traditional two-
step pipeline for synchronous rule extraction
by 1.3 BLEU points and is also better than pre-
vious max-likelihood estimation method.
1 