
Joint compression and summarization has
been used recently to generate high quality
summaries. However, such word-based joint
optimization is computationally expensive. In
this paper we adopt the ?sentence compression
+ sentence selection? pipeline approach for
compressive summarization, but propose to
perform summary guided compression, rather
than generic sentence-based compression. To
create an annotated corpus, the human anno-
tators were asked to compress sentences while
explicitly given the important summary words
in the sentences. Using this corpus, we train
a supervised sentence compression model us-
ing a set of word-, syntax-, and document-
level features. During summarization, we use
multiple compressed sentences in the inte-
ger linear programming framework to select
salient summary sentences. Our results on the
TAC 2008 and 2011 summarization data sets
show that by incorporating the guided sen-
tence compression model, our summarization
system can yield significant performance gain
as compared to the state-of-the-art.
1 