
The creation of a pronunciation lexicon re-
mains the most inefficient process in develop-
ing an Automatic Speech Recognizer (ASR).
In this paper, we propose an unsupervised
alternative ? requiring no language-specific
knowledge ? to the conventional manual ap-
proach for creating pronunciation dictionar-
ies. We present a hierarchical Bayesian model,
which jointly discovers the phonetic inven-
tory and the Letter-to-Sound (L2S) mapping
rules in a language using only transcribed
data. When tested on a corpus of spontaneous
queries, the results demonstrate the superior-
ity of the proposed joint learning scheme over
its sequential counterpart, in which the la-
tent phonetic inventory and L2S mappings are
learned separately. Furthermore, the recogniz-
ers built with the automatically induced lexi-
con consistently outperform grapheme-based
recognizers and even approach the perfor-
mance of recognition systems trained using
conventional supervised procedures.
1 