
Document summarization is an important task
in the area of natural language processing,
which aims to extract the most important in-
formation from a single document or a clus-
ter of documents. In various summarization
tasks, the summary length is manually de-
fined. However, how to find the proper sum-
mary length is quite a problem; and keeping
all summaries restricted to the same length
is not always a good choice. It is obvi-
ously improper to generate summaries with
the same length for two clusters of docu-
ments which contain quite different quantity
of information. In this paper, we propose
a Bayesian nonparametric model for multi-
document summarization in order to automat-
ically determine the proper lengths of sum-
maries. Assuming that an original document
can be reconstructed from its summary, we
describe the ?reconstruction? by a Bayesian
framework which selects sentences to form
a good summary. Experimental results on
DUC2004 data sets and some expanded data
demonstrate the good quality of our sum-
maries and the rationality of the length deter-
mination.
1 