
Lexical chains provide a representation of the
lexical cohesion structure of a text. In this pa-
per, we propose two lexical chain based co-
hesion models to incorporate lexical cohesion
into document-level statistical machine trans-
lation: 1) a count cohesion model that rewards
a hypothesis whenever a chain word occurs in
the hypothesis, 2) and a probability cohesion
model that further takes chain word transla-
tion probabilities into account. We compute
lexical chains for each source document to be
translated and generate target lexical chains
based on the computed source chains via max-
imum entropy classifiers. We then use the
generated target chains to provide constraints
for word selection in document-level machine
translation through the two proposed lexical
chain based cohesion models. We verify the
effectiveness of the two models using a hier-
archical phrase-based translation system. Ex-
periments on large-scale training data show
that they can substantially improve translation
quality in terms of BLEU and that the prob-
ability cohesion model outperforms previous
models based on lexical cohesion devices.
1 