
Large scale annotated corpora are pre-
requisite to developing high-performance
semantic role labeling systems. Unfor-
tunately, such corpora are expensive to
produce, limited in size, and may not be
representative. Our work aims to reduce
the annotation effort involved in creat-
ing resources for semantic role labeling
via semi-supervised learning. Our algo-
rithm augments a small number of man-
ually labeled instances with unlabeled ex-
amples whose roles are inferred automat-
ically via annotation projection. We for-
mulate the projection task as a generaliza-
tion of the linear assignment problem. We
seek to find a role assignment in the un-
labeled data such that the argument sim-
ilarity between the labeled and unlabeled
instances is maximized. Experimental re-
sults on semantic role labeling show that
the automatic annotations produced by our
method improve performance over using
hand-labeled instances alone.
1 