 
 
In this paper, we describe experiments con-
ducted on identifying a person using a novel 
unique correlated corpus of text and audio 
samples of the person?s communication in six 
genres.  The text samples include essays, 
emails, blogs, and chat.  Audio samples were 
collected from individual interviews and group 
discussions and then transcribed to text.  For 
each genre, samples were collected for six top-
ics.  We show that we can identify the com-
municant with an accuracy of 71% for six fold 
cross validation using an average of 22,000 
words per individual across the six genres.  
For person identification in a particular genre 
(train on five genres, test on one), an average 
accuracy of 82% is achieved.  For identifica-
tion from topics (train on five topics, test on 
one), an average accuracy of 94% is achieved.  
We also report results on identifying a per-
son?s communication in a genre using text ge-
nres only as well as audio genres only.  
1 