
Sense induction seeks to automatically
identify word senses directly from a cor-
pus. A key assumption underlying pre-
vious work is that the context surround-
ing an ambiguous word is indicative of
its meaning. Sense induction is thus typ-
ically viewed as an unsupervised cluster-
ing problem where the aim is to partition
a word?s contexts into different classes,
each representing a word sense. Our work
places sense induction in a Bayesian con-
text by modeling the contexts of the am-
biguous word as samples from a multi-
nomial distribution over senses which
are in turn characterized as distributions
over words. The Bayesian framework pro-
vides a principled way to incorporate a
wide range of features beyond lexical co-
occurrences and to systematically assess
their utility on the sense induction task.
The proposed approach yields improve-
ments over state-of-the-art systems on a
benchmark dataset.
1 