 
Many parsing techniques including pa-
rameter estimation assume the use of a 
packed parse forest for efficient and ac-
curate parsing.  However, they have sev-
eral inherent problems deriving from the 
restriction of locality in the packed parse 
forest.  Deterministic parsing is one of 
solutions that can achieve simple and fast 
parsing without the mechanisms of the 
packed parse forest by accurately choos-
ing search paths.  We propose (i) deter-
ministic shift-reduce parsing for unifica-
tion-based grammars, and (ii) best-first 
shift-reduce parsing with beam threshold-
ing for unification-based grammars.  De-
terministic parsing cannot simply be ap-
plied to unification-based grammar pars-
ing, which often fails because of its hard 
constraints.  Therefore, it is developed by 
using default unification, which almost 
always succeeds in unification by over-
writing inconsistent constraints in gram-
mars. 
1 