
In this paper we compare and contrast
two approaches to Machine Translation
(MT): the CMU-UKA Syntax Augmented
Machine Translation system (SAMT) and
UPC-TALP N-gram-based Statistical Ma-
chine Translation (SMT). SAMT is a hier-
archical syntax-driven translation system
underlain by a phrase-based model and a
target part parse tree. In N-gram-based
SMT, the translation process is based on
bilingual units related to word-to-word
alignment and statistical modeling of the
bilingual context following a maximum-
entropy framework. We provide a step-
by-step comparison of the systems and re-
port results in terms of automatic evalu-
ation metrics and required computational
resources for a smaller Arabic-to-English
translation task (1.5M tokens in the train-
ing corpus). Human error analysis clari-
fies advantages and disadvantages of the
systems under consideration. Finally, we
combine the output of both systems to
yield significant improvements in transla-
tion quality.
1 