
We have adapted a classification approach
coming from optical character recognition
research to the task of speech emotion
recognition. The classification approach
enjoys the representational power of a syn-
tactic method and efficiency of statisti-
cal classification. The syntactic part im-
plements a tree grammar inference algo-
rithm. We have extended this part of the
algorithm with various edit costs to pe-
nalise more important features with higher
edit costs for being outside the interval,
which tree automata learned at the infer-
ence stage. The statistical part implements
an entropy based decision tree (C4.5). We
did the testing on the Berlin database of
emotional speech. Our classifier outper-
forms the state of the art classifier (Multi-
layer Perceptron) by 4.68% and a baseline
(C4.5) by 26.58%, which proves validity
of the approach.
1 