
This paper examines unsupervised ap-
proaches to part-of-speech (POS) tagging
for morphologically-rich, resource-scarce
languages, with an emphasis on Goldwa-
ter and Griffiths?s (2007) fully-Bayesian
approach originally developed for En-
glish POS tagging. We argue that ex-
isting unsupervised POS taggers unreal-
istically assume as input a perfect POS
lexicon, and consequently, we propose
a weakly supervised fully-Bayesian ap-
proach to POS tagging, which relaxes the
unrealistic assumption by automatically
acquiring the lexicon from a small amount
of POS-tagged data. Since such relaxation
comes at the expense of a drop in tag-
ging accuracy, we propose two extensions
to the Bayesian framework and demon-
strate that they are effective in improv-
ing a fully-Bayesian POS tagger for Ben-
gali, our representative morphologically-
rich, resource-scarce language.
1 