
In this paper, we compare three different
generalization methods for in-domain and
cross-domain opinion holder extraction be-
ing simple unsupervised word clustering,
an induction method inspired by distant
supervision and the usage of lexical re-
sources. The generalization methods are
incorporated into diverse classifiers. We
show that generalization causes significant
improvements and that the impact of im-
provement depends on the type of classifier
and on how much training and test data dif-
fer from each other. We also address the
less common case of opinion holders being
realized in patient position and suggest ap-
proaches including a novel (linguistically-
informed) extraction method how to detect
those opinion holders without labeled train-
ing data as standard datasets contain too
few instances of this type.
1 