 
The paper describes a progrmn which has been 
constructed to produce English strings from a 
case-labellea depenaency representation. The 
program uses an especially single and uniform 
control structure with a well defined separation 
of the different knowledge sources used during 
ge~,eration. Furthermore, the majority of t/le 
syst~n's knowledge is expressed in a declarative 
form, so in priciple the generator ' s knowledge 
bases could be used for purposes other than 
gex,eration. The ge~erator uses a two-pass control 
structure, the first translating from the 
s~nantically orientated case-labelled dependency 
structures into surface syntactic trees and the 
second translating from these trees into English 
str i~/s. 
The generator is very flexible: it can be run in 
such a way as to produce all the possible 
syntactically legitimate variations on a giveJ, 
utterance, and has built in facilities to do some 
synon~s substitution. It has been used in a 
nu, ber of application domains: notably as a part of 
a free text retrieval system and as part of a 
natural language front end to a relational database 
system. 
i. 