 
Kaplan et al (1989) present a framework 
for translation based on the description 
and correspondence oncepts of Lexical- 
Functional Grammar (Kaplan and 
Bresnan, 1982). Certain phenomena, in
particular the head-switching of adverbs 
and verbs, seem to be problematic for that 
approach. In this paper we suggest hat 
these difficulties are more properly 
considered as the result of defective 
monolingual nalyses. We propose a new 
description-language op rator, restriction, 
to permit a succinct formal encoding of the 
informal intuition that semantic units 
sometimes correspond to subsets of 
functional information. This operator, in 
conjunction with an additional recursion 
provided by a description-by-analysis rule, 
is the basis of a more adequate account of 
head-switching that preserves the 
advantages of correspondence-based 
translation. 
1. 