 
The paper presents a constraint based semantic 
formalism for HPSG. The syntax-semantics inter- 
face directly implements yntactic conditions on 
quantifier scoping and distributivity. 1 The con- 
struction of semantic representations is guided" by 
general principles governing the interaction bet- 
ween syntax and semantics. Each of these princip- 
les acts as a constraint o narrow down the set 
of possible interpretations of a sentence. Meanings 
of ambiguous entences are represented by single 
partial representations ( o-called U(nderspecified) 
D(iscourse) R(epresentation) S(tructure)s) to which 
further constraints can be added monotonically to 
gain more information about the content of a sent- 
ence. There is no need to build up a large number 
of alternative representations of the sentence which 
are then filtered by subsequent discourse and world 
knowledge. The advantage of UDRSs is not only that 
they allow for monotonic incremental interpretation 
but also that they are equipped with truth condi- 
tions and a proof theory that allows for inferences 
to be drawn directly on structures where quantifier 
scope is not resolved. 
1 