 
In this paper we present an approach to 
automatic authorship attribution dealing 
with real-world (or unrestricted) text. 
Our method is based on the 
computational analysis of the input text 
using a text-processing tool. Besides the 
style markers relevant o the output of 
this tool we also use analysis-dependent 
style markers, that is, measures that 
represent the way in which the text has 
been processed. No word frequency 
counts, nor other lexically-based 
measures are taken into account. We 
show that the proposed set of style 
markers is able to distinguish texts of 
various authors of a weekly newspaper 
using multiple regression. All the 
experiments we present were performed 
using real-world text downloaded from 
the World Wide Web. Our approach is 
easily trainable and fully-automated 
requiring no manual text preprocessing 
nor sampling. 
1 