
The lack of annotated data is an ob-
stacle to the development of many
natural language processing applica-
tions; the problem is especially severe
when the data is non-English. Pre-
vious studies suggested the possibility
of acquiring resources for non-English
languages by bootstrapping from high
quality English NLP tools and paral-
lel corpora; however, the success of
these approaches seems limited for dis-
similar language pairs. In this paper,
we propose a novel approach of com-
bining a bootstrapped resource with a
small amount of manually annotated
data. We compare the proposed ap-
proach with other bootstrapping meth-
ods in the context of training a Chinese
Part-of-Speech tagger. Experimental
results show that our proposed ap-
proach achieves a significant improve-
ment over EM and self-training and
systems that are only trained on man-
ual annotations.
1 