
In word sense disambiguation, a system attempts to
determine the sense of a word from contextual fea-
tures. Major barriers to building a high-performing
word sense disambiguation system include the dif-
ficulty of labeling data for this task and of pre-
dicting fine-grained sense distinctions. These is-
sues stem partly from the fact that the task is be-
ing treated in isolation from possible uses of au-
tomatically disambiguated data. In this paper, we
consider the related task of word translation, where
we wish to determine the correct translation of a
word from context. We can use parallel language
corpora as a large supply of partially labeled data
for this task. We present algorithms for solving the
word translation problem and demonstrate a signif-
icant improvement over a baseline system. We then
show that the word-translation system can be used
to improve performance on a simplified machine-
translation task and can effectively and accurately
prune the set of candidate translations for a word.
1 