
In this paper, we look at comparing high-
accuracy context-free parsers with high-
accuracy finite-state (shallow) parsers on
several shallow parsing tasks. We
show that previously reported compar-
isons greatly under-estimated the perfor-
mance of context-free parsers for these
tasks. We also demonstrate that context-
free parsers can train effectively on rel-
atively little training data, and are more
robust to domain shift for shallow pars-
ing tasks than has been previously re-
ported. Finally, we establish that combin-
ing the output of context-free and finite-
state parsers gives much higher results
than the previous-best published results,
on several common tasks. While the
efficiency benefit of finite-state models
is inarguable, the results presented here
show that the corresponding cost in accu-
racy is higher than previously thought.
1 