 
Existing named entity (NE) transliteration 
approaches often exploit a general model to 
transliterate NEs, regardless of their origins. 
As a result, both a Chinese name and a 
French name (assuming it is already trans-
lated into Chinese) will be translated into 
English using the same model, which often 
leads to unsatisfactory performance. In this 
paper we propose a cluster-specific NE 
transliteration framework. We group name 
origins into a smaller number of clusters, 
then train transliteration and language mod-
els for each cluster under a statistical ma-
chine translation framework. Given a source 
NE, we first select appropriate models by 
classifying it into the most likely cluster, 
then we transliterate this NE with the corre-
sponding models. We also propose a phrase-
based name transliteration model, which ef-
fectively combines context information for 
transliteration. Our experiments showed 
substantial improvement on the translitera-
tion accuracy over a state-of-the-art baseline 
system, significantly reducing the 
transliteration character error rate from 
50.29% to 12.84%. 
1 