
We present a novel almost-unsupervised
approach to the task of Word Sense Dis-
ambiguation (WSD). We build sense ex-
amples automatically, using large quanti-
ties of Chinese text, and English-Chinese
and Chinese-English bilingual dictionar-
ies, taking advantage of the observation
that mappings between words and mean-
ings are often different in typologically
distant languages. We train a classifier on
the sense examples and test it on a gold
standard English WSD dataset. The eval-
uation gives results that exceed previous
state-of-the-art results for comparable sys-
tems. We also demonstrate that a little
manual effort can improve the quality of
sense examples, as measured by WSD ac-
curacy. The performance of the classifier
on WSD also improves as the number of
training sense examples increases.
1 