
Confidence measures for machine transla-
tion is a method for labeling each word in
an automatically generated translation as
correct or incorrect. In this paper, we will
present a new approach to confidence es-
timation which has the advantage that it
does not rely on system output such as N -
best lists or word graphs as many other
confidence measures do. It is, thus, appli-
cable to any kind of machine translation
system.
Experimental evaluation has been per-
formed on translation of technical manu-
als in three different language pairs. Re-
sults will be presented for different ma-
chine translation systems to show that the
new approach is independent of the under-
lying machine translation system which
generated the translations. To the best
of our knowledge, the performance of the
new confidence measure is better than that
of any existing confidence measure.
1 