
Machine summaries can be improved by
using knowledge about the cognitive sta-
tus of news article referents. In this paper,
we present an approach to automatically
acquiring distinctions in cognitive status
using machine learning over the forms of
referring expressions appearing in the in-
put. We focus on modeling references to
people, both because news often revolve
around people and because existing natu-
ral language tools for named entity iden-
tification are reliable. We examine two
specific distinctions?whether a person in
the news can be assumed to be known to a
target audience (hearer-old vs hearer-new)
and whether a person is a major charac-
ter in the news story. We report on ma-
chine learning experiments that show that
these distinctions can be learned with high
accuracy, and validate our approach using
human subjects.
1 