 
One of the problems for all speech input is the 
necessity for the talker to be encumbered by a head. 
mounted, hand-held, or fixed position microphone. An 
intelfigent, electronically-aimed unidirectional micro- 
phone would overcome this problem. Array tech- 
niques hold the best promise to bring such a system to 
practicality. The development of a robust algorithm to 
determine the location of a talker is a fundamental is- 
sue for a microphone-array s stem. Here, a two-step 
talker-location algorithm is introduced. Step 1 is a 
rather conventional filtered cross-correlation method; 
the cross-correlation between some pair of micro- 
phones is determined to high accuracy using a some- 
what novel, fast interpolation on the sampled data. 
Then, using the fact that the delays for a point source 
should fit a hyperbola, a best hyperbolic fit is obtained 
using nonlinear optimization. A method which fits the 
hyperbola directly to peak-picked elays is shown to 
be far less robust than an algorithm which fits the hy- 
perbola in the cross-correlation space. An efficient, 
global nonlinear optimization technique, Stochastic re- 
gion Contraction (SRC) is shown to yield highly accu- 
rate (>90%), and computationally efficient, results for 
a normal ambient. 
