
The normalization of corpus metadata 
plays a key role in building sharable 
corpora. However, there is no uniform 
specification for defining and process-
ing metadata in Chinese corpus nowa-
days. This paper introduces a 
metadata system we?ve proposed for 
Chinese corpus. 46 elements are de-
fined in all, which can be divided into 6 
classes: information about copyright, 
information about background of lin-
guistic material creator, information 
about medium of linguistic material, 
information about the content of lin-
guistic material, information about 
collecting linguistic material, and in-
formation about management of lin-
guistic material. To distinguish one 
element from another, or our elements 
from someone else?s, we provide a po-
tent description method, where 10 sub-
sections are designed to describe the 
detailed properties for each element.
1 