 
This paper describes a hybrid Chinese 
word segmenter that is being developed 
as part of a larger Chinese unknown 
word resolution system. The segmenter 
consists of two components: a tagging 
component that uses the transforma-
tion-based learning algorithm to tag 
each character with its position in a 
word, and a merging component that 
transforms a tagged character sequence 
into a word-segmented sentence. In ad-
dition to the position-of-character tags 
assigned to the characters, the merging 
component makes use of a number of 
heuristics to handle non-Chinese char-
acters, numeric type compounds, and 
long words. The segmenter achieved a 
92.8% F-score and a 72.8% recall for 
OOV words in the closed track of the 
Peking University Corpus in the Sec-
ond International Chinese Word Seg-
mentation Bakeoff. 
1 