
This paper presents the results of the
system IRLAS1 from HIT-IRLab in the
Second International Chinese Word
Segmentation Bakeoff. IRLAS consists
of several basic components and multi-
ple postprocessors. The basic compo-
nents include basic segmentation,
factoid recognition, and named entity
recognition. These components main-
tain a segment graph together. The
postprocessors include merging of ad-
joining words, morphologically derived
word recognition, and new word identi-
fication. These postprocessors do some
modifications on the best word se-
quence which is selected from the seg-
ment graph. Our system participated in
the open and closed tracks of PK cor-
pus and ranked #4 and #3 respectively.
Our scores were very close to the high-
est level. It proves that our system has
reached the current state of the art.
1 