
This study addresses pronominal
anaphora resolution, including zero
pronouns, in Chinese. A syntactic,
rule-based pronoun resolution algo-
rithm, the ?Hobbs algorithm? was run
on ?gold standard? hand parses from
the Penn Chinese Treebank. While first
proposed for English, the algorithm
counts for its success on two char-
acteristics that Chinese and English
have in common. Both languages are
SVO, and both are fixed word order
languages. No changes were made to
adapt the algorithm to Chinese. The
accuracy of the algorithm on overt,
third-person pronouns at the matrix
level was 77.6%, and the accuracy for
resolving matrix-level zero pronouns
was 73.3%. In contrast, the accuracy
of the algorithm on pronouns that
appeared in subordinate constructions
was only 43.3%, providing support for
Miltsakaki?s two-mechanism proposal
for resolving inter- vs. intra-sentential
anaphors.
1 