
Part-of-speech tagging, like any supervised statistical 
NLP task, is more difficult when test sets are very 
different from training sets, for example when tag-
ging across genres or language varieties. We exam-
ined the problem of POS tagging of different 
varieties of Mandarin Chinese (PRC-Mainland, PRC-
Hong Kong, and Taiwan). An analytic study first 
showed that unknown words were a major source of 
difficulty in cross-variety tagging. Unknown words 
in English tend to be proper nouns. By contrast, we 
found that Mandarin unknown words were mostly 
common nouns and verbs. We showed these results 
are caused by the high frequency of morphological 
compounding in Mandarin; in this sense Mandarin is 
more like German than English. Based on this analy-
sis, we propose a variety of new morphological un-
known-word features for POS tagging, extending 
earlier work by others on unknown-word tagging in 
English and German. Our features were implemented 
in a maximum entropy Markov model. Our system 
achieves state-of-the-art performance in Mandarin 
tagging, including improving unknown-word tagging 
performance on unseen varieties in Chinese Treebank 
5.0 from 61% to 80% correct. 
1 