 
In this paper, we present a hybrid Chi-
nese language model based on a com-
bination of ontology with statistical 
method. In this study, we determined 
the structure of such a Chinese lan-
guage model. This structure is firstly 
comprised of an ontology description 
framework for Chinese words and a 
representation of Chinese lingual on-
tology knowledge. Subsequently, a 
Chinese lingual ontology knowledge 
bank is automatically acquired by de-
termining, for each word, its co-
occurrence with semantic, pragmatics, 
and syntactic information from the 
training corpus and the usage of Chi-
nese words will be gotten from lingual 
ontology knowledge bank for a actual 
document. To evaluate the performance 
of this language model, we completed 
two groups of experiments on texts re-
ordering for Chinese information re-
trieval and texts similarity computing. 
Compared with previous works, the 
proposed method improved the preci-
sion of nature language processing. 
1 