 
This paper proposes a unified evalua-
tion method for multiple reading sup-
port systems such as a sentence 
translation system and a word transla-
tion system.  In reading a non-native 
language text, these systems aim to 
lighten the reading burden.  When we 
evaluate the performance of these sys-
tems, we cannot rely solely on these 
tests, as the output forms are different.  
Therefore, we must assess the perform-
ance of these systems based on the us-
ers? reading comprehension and 
reading speed.  We will further support 
our findings with experimental results.  
They show that the reading-speed pro-
cedure is able to evaluate the support 
systems, as well as, the comprehension-
based procedure proposed by Ohguro 
(1993) and Fuji et al (2001). 
1 