*
Technical terms are linguistic realiza-
tion of a domain concept and their con-
stituents are a component used for 
representing the concept. Many techni-
cal terms are usually multi-word terms 
and their meaning can be inferred from 
their constituents. Because a term con-
stituent is usually a morphological unit 
rather than a conceptual unit in Korean 
technical terms, we need to first iden-
tify conceptual units and then to re-
solve the proper meaning of the 
conceptual units in order to properly 
translate technical terms. For natural 
language applications to properly han-
dle technical terms, it is necessary to 
give information about conceptual units 
and their meaning including homonym, 
synonym and domain dependency. In 
this paper, we propose a term constitu-
ent alignment algorithm, which extracts 
such information from bilingual techni-
cal term pairs. Our algorithm regards 
English term constituents as a concep-
tual unit and then finds its Korean 
counterpart. Our method shows about 
6.1% AER. 
1 