
Many natural language applications, like
machine translation and information extrac-
tion, are required to operate on text with
spelling errors. Those spelling mistakes
have to be corrected automatically to avoid
deteriorating the performance of such ap-
plications. In this work, we introduce a
novel approach for automatic correction of
spelling mistakes by deploying finite state
automata to propose candidates corrections
within a specified edit distance from the mis-
spelled word. After choosing candidate cor-
rections, a language model is used to assign
scores the candidate corrections and choose
best correction in the given context. The
proposed approach is language independent
and requires only a dictionary and text data
for building a language model. The ap-
proach have been tested on both Arabic and
English text and achieved accuracy of 89%.
1 