
Transliteration is the process of transcribing
words from a source script to a target script.
These words can be content words or proper
nouns. They may be of local or foreign ori-
gin. In this paper we present a more dis-
cerning method which applies different tech-
niques based on the word origin. The tech-
niques used also take into account the prop-
erties of the scripts. Our approach does not
require training data on the target side, while
it uses more sophisticated techniques on the
source side. Fuzzy string matching is used to
compensate for lack of training on the target
side. We have evaluated on two Indian lan-
guages and have achieved substantially bet-
ter results (increase of up to 0.44 in MRR)
than the baseline and comparable to the state
of the art. Our experiments clearly show that
word origin is an important factor in achiev-
ing higher accuracy in transliteration.
1 