 
We present a hybrid machine learning ap-
proach for coreference resolution. In our 
method, we use CRFs as basic training 
model, use active learning method to gen-
erate combined features so as to make ex-
isted features used more effectively; at last, 
we proposed a novel clustering algorithm 
which used both the linguistics knowledge 
and the statistical knowledge. We built a 
coreference resolution system based on the 
proposed method and evaluate its perform-
ance from three aspects: the contributions 
of active learning; the effects of different 
clustering algorithms; and the resolution 
performance of different kinds of NPs. Ex-
perimental results show that additional per-
formance gain can be obtained by using ac-
tive learning method; clustering algorithm 
has a great effect on coreference resolu-
tion?s performance and our clustering algo-
rithm is very effective; and the key of 
coreference resolution is to improve the 
performance of the normal noun?s resolu-
tion, especially the pronoun?s resolution. 
1 