 
We explore the effects of language related-
ness within a multilingual information re-
trieval (IR) framework which can be de-
ployed to virtually any language, focusing 
specifically on Indo-European versus Se-
mitic languages. The Semitic languages 
present unique challenges to IR for a num-
ber of reasons, so we set out to answer the 
question of whether cross-language IR for 
Semitic languages can be boosted by ma-
nipulation of the training data (which, in 
our framework, includes multilingual paral-
lel text, some of which is morphologically 
analyzed). We attempted three measures to 
achieve this: first, the inclusion of geneti-
cally related (i.e., other Semitic) languages 
in the training data; second, the inclusion 
of non-related languages sharing the same 
script, and third, the inclusion of morpho-
logical analysis for Semitic languages. We 
find that language relatedness is a definite 
factor in boosting IR precision; script simi-
larity can probably be ruled out as a factor; 
and morphological analysis can be helpful, 
but ? perhaps paradoxically ? not necessar-
ily to the languages which are subjected to 
morphological analysis. 
1 