 
This paper presents a new method of using 
confidence vector as an intermediate input 
feature for the multi-stage based speech 
recognition. The multi-stage based speech 
recognition is a method to reduce the com-
putational complexity of the decoding pro-
cedure and thus accomplish faster speech 
recognition. In the multi-stage speech rec-
ognition, however, the error of previous 
stage is transferred to the next stage. This 
tends to cause the deterioration of the over-
all performance. We focus on improving 
the accuracy by introducing confidence 
vector instead of phoneme which typically 
used as an intermediate feature between the 
acoustic decoder and the lexical decoder, 
the first two stages in the multi-stage 
speech recognition. The experimental re-
sults show up to 16.4% error reduction 
rate(ERR) of word accuracy for  220k Ko-
rean Point-of-Interest (POI) domain and 
29.6% ERR of word accuracy for hotel res-
ervation dialog domain.  
1 