 
This paper proposes a context-sensitive convo-
lution tree kernel for pronoun resolution. It re-
solves two critical problems in previous 
researches in two ways. First, given a parse 
tree and a pair of an anaphor and an antecedent 
candidate, it implements a dynamic-expansion 
scheme to automatically determine a proper 
tree span for pronoun resolution by taking 
predicate- and antecedent competitor-related 
information into consideration. Second, it ap-
plies a context-sensitive convolution tree ker-
nel, which enumerates both context-free and 
context-sensitive sub-trees by considering their 
ancestor node paths as their contexts. Evalua-
tion on the ACE 2003 corpus shows that our 
dynamic-expansion tree span scheme can well 
cover necessary structured information in the 
parse tree for pronoun resolution and the con-
text-sensitive tree kernel much outperforms 
previous tree kernels.  
1 