
Bracketing Transduction Grammar (BTG)
has been well studied and used in statistical
machine translation (SMT) with promising
results. However, there are two major issues
for BTG-based SMT. First, there is no effec-
tive mechanism available for predicting or-
ders between neighboring blocks in the orig-
inal BTG. Second, the computational cost is
high. In this paper, we introduce two re-
finements for BTG-based SMT to achieve
better reordering and higher-speed decod-
ing, which include (1) reordering heuristics
to prevent incorrect swapping and reduce
search space, and (2) special phrases with
tags to indicate sentence beginning and end-
ing. The two refinements are integrated into
a well-established BTG-based Chinese-to-
English SMT system that is trained on large-
scale parallel data. Experimental results on
the NIST MT-05 task show that the proposed
refinements contribute significant improve-
ment of 2% in BLEU score over the baseline
system.
1 