 
This paper explores an automatic WordNet 
synset assignment to the bi-lingual diction-
aries of languages having limited lexicon 
information. Generally, a term in a bi-
lingual dictionary is provided with very 
limited information such as part-of-speech, 
a set of synonyms, and a set of English 
equivalents. This type of dictionary is 
comparatively reliable and can be found in 
an electronic form from various publishers. 
In this paper, we propose an algorithm for 
applying a set of criteria to assign a synset 
with an appropriate degree of confidence to 
the existing bi-lingual dictionary. We show 
the efficiency in nominating the synset 
candidate by using the most common lexi-
cal information. The algorithm is evaluated 
against the implementation of Thai-
English, Indonesian-English, and Mongo-
lian-English bi-lingual dictionaries. The 
experiment also shows the effectiveness of 
using the same type of dictionary from dif-
ferent sources.  
1 