 
Since its inception, the World Wide Web 
(WWW) has exponentially grown to shelter 
billions of monolingual and multilingual 
web pages that can be navigated through 
hyperlinks. Its structural properties provide 
useful information in presenting the socio-
linguistic properties of the web. In this 
study, about 26 million web pages under 
the South East Asian country code top-
level-domains (ccTLDs) are analyzed, sev-
eral language communities are identified, 
and the graph structure of these communi-
ties are analyzed. The distance between 
language communities are calculated by a 
distance metrics based on the number of 
outgoing links between web pages. Inter-
mediary languages are identified by graph 
analysis. By creating a language subgraph, 
the size and diameter of its strongly-
connected components are derived, as these 
values are useful parameters for language-
specific crawling. Performing a link struc-
ture analysis of the web pages can be a use-
ful tool for socio-linguistic and technical 
research purposes. 
1 