
A critical, yet not very well studied problem
in medical applications is the issue of accu-
rately labeling patient records according to
diagnoses and procedures that patients have
undergone. This labeling problem, known as
coding, consists of assigning standard medi-
cal codes (ICD9 and CPT) to patient records.
Each patient record can have several corre-
sponding labels/codes, many of which are
correlated to specific diseases. The cur-
rent, most frequent coding approach involves
manual labeling, which requires considerable
human effort and is cumbersome for large
patient databases. In this paper we view
medical coding as a multi-label classification
problem, where we treat each code as a label
for patient records. Due to government regu-
lations concerning patient medical data, pre-
vious studies in automatic coding have been
quite limited. In this paper, we compare two
efficient algorithms for diagnosis coding on a
large patient dataset.
1 