 
Parallel Named Entity pairs are important 
resources in several NLP tasks, such as, 
CLIR and MT systems.  Further, such pairs 
may also be used for training transliteration 
systems, if they are transliterations of each 
other.  In this paper, we profile the perfor-
mance of a mining methodology in mining 
parallel named entity transliteration pairs in  
English and an Indian language, Tamil,   
leveraging linguistic tools in English, and 
article-aligned comparable corpora in  the 
two languages.  We adopt a methodology 
parallel to that of [Klementiev and Roth, 
2006], but we focus instead on mining    
parallel named entity transliteration pairs,   
using a well-trained linear classifier to 
identify transliteration pairs.  We profile 
the performance at several operating para-
meters of our algorithm and present the   
results that show the potential of the       
approach in mining transliterations pairs; in 
addition, we uncover a host of issues that 
need to be resolved, for effective mining of  
parallel named entity transliteration pairs. 
1 