
Document retrieval is a critical component
of question answering (QA), yet little work
has been done towards statistical modeling
of queries and towards automatic generation
of high quality query content for QA. This
paper introduces a new, cluster-based query
expansion method that learns queries known
to be successful when applied to similar
questions. We show that cluster-based ex-
pansion improves the retrieval performance
of a statistical question answering system
when used in addition to existing query ex-
pansion methods. This paper presents exper-
iments with several feature selection meth-
ods used individually and in combination.
We show that documents retrieved using the
cluster-based approach are inherently differ-
ent than documents retrieved using existing
methods and provide a higher data diversity
to answers extractors.
1 