 
In Cross Language Information Retrieval 
(CLIR), query terms can be translated to 
the document language using Bilingual 
Dictionaries (BDs) or Statistical Transla-
tion Models (STMs). Combining different 
translation resources can also be used to 
improve the performance. Unfortunately, 
the most studies on combining multiple re-
sources use simple methods such as linear 
combination. In this paper, we drew up a 
comparative study between linear combina-
tion and confidence measures to combine 
multiple translation resources for the pur-
pose of CLIR. We show that the linear 
combination method is unable to combine 
correctly different types of resources such 
as BDs and STMs. While the confidence 
measure method is able to re-weight the 
translation candidate more radically than in 
linear combination. It reconsiders each 
translation candidate proposed by different 
resources with respect to additional fea-
tures. We tested the two methods on differ-
ent test CLIR collections and the results 
show that the confidence measure outper-
forms the linear combination method. 
1 