
Orthographic variance is a fundamental
problem for many natural language process-
ing applications. The Japanese language, in
particular, contains many orthographic vari-
ants for two main reasons: (1) transliterated
words allow many possible spelling varia-
tions, and (2) many characters in Japanese
nouns can be omitted or substituted. Pre-
vious studies have mainly focused on the
former problem; in contrast, this study has
addressed both problems using the same
framework. First, we automatically col-
lected both positive examples (sets of equiv-
alent term pairs) and negative examples (sets
of inequivalent term pairs). Then, by using
both sets of examples, a support vector ma-
chine based classifier determined whether
two terms (t1 and t2) were equivalent. To
boost accuracy, we added a transliterated
probability P (t1|s)P (t2|s), which is the
probability that both terms (t1 and t2) were
transliterated from the same source term (s),
to the machine learning features. Exper-
imental results yielded high levels of ac-
curacy, demonstrating the feasibility of the
proposed approach.
1 