 
We consider the problem of 1  identifying 
product features and opinion words in a 
unified process from Chinese customer re-
views when only a much small seed set of 
opinion words is available. In particular, 
we consider a problem setting motivated by 
the task of identifying product features 
with opinion words and learning opinion 
words through features alternately and it-
eratively. In customer reviews, opinion 
words usually have a close relationship 
with product features, and the association 
between them is measured by a revised 
formula of mutual information in this paper. 
A bootstrapping iterative learning strategy 
is proposed to alternately both of them. A 
linguistic rule is adopted to identify low-
frequent features and opinion words. Fur-
thermore, a mapping function from opinion 
words to features is proposed to identify 
implicit features in sentence. Empirical re-
sults on three kinds of product reviews in-
dicate the effectiveness of our method. 
1 