
This paper is about Named Entity Recogni-
tion (NER) for Telugu. Not much work has
been done in NER for Indian languages in
general and Telugu in particular. Adequate
annotated corpora are not yet available in
Telugu. We recognize that named entities
are usually nouns. In this paper we there-
fore start with our experiments in building
a CRF (Conditional Random Fields) based
Noun Tagger. Trained on a manually tagged
data of 13,425 words and tested on a test
data set of 6,223 words, this Noun Tagger
has given an F-Measure of about 92%. We
then develop a rule based NER system for
Telugu. Our focus is mainly on identify-
ing person, place and organization names.
A manually checked Named Entity tagged
corpus of 72,157 words has been developed
using this rule based tagger through boot-
strapping. We have then developed a CRF
based NER system for Telugu and tested
it on several data sets from the Eenaadu
and Andhra Prabha newspaper corpora de-
veloped by us here. Good performance has
been obtained using the majority tag con-
cept. We have obtained overall F-measures
between 80% and 97% in various experi-
ments.
Keywords: Noun Tagger, NER for Telugu, CRF,
Majority Tag.
1 