
In this paper we describe a hybrid system
that applies Maximum Entropy model (Max-
Ent), language specific rules and gazetteers
to the task of Named Entity Recognition
(NER) in Indian languages designed for the
IJCNLP NERSSEAL shared task. Starting
with Named Entity (NE) annotated corpora
and a set of features we first build a base-
line NER system. Then some language spe-
cific rules are added to the system to recog-
nize some specific NE classes. Also we have
added some gazetteers and context patterns
to the system to increase the performance.
As identification of rules and context pat-
terns requires language knowledge, we were
able to prepare rules and identify context
patterns for Hindi and Bengali only. For the
other languages the system uses the MaxEnt
model only. After preparing the one-level
NER system, we have applied a set of rules
to identify the nested entities. The system
is able to recognize 12 classes of NEs with
65.13% f-value in Hindi, 65.96% f-value in
Bengali and 44.65%, 18.74%, and 35.47%
f-value in Oriya, Telugu and Urdu respec-
tively.
1 