
Named Entity (NE) extraction is an important
subtask of document processing such as in-
formation extraction and question answering.
A typical method used for NE extraction of
Japanese texts is a cascade of morphological
analysis, POS tagging and chunking. However,
there are some cases where segmentation gran-
ularity contradicts the results of morphologi-
cal analysis and the building units of NEs, so
that extraction of some NEs are inherently im-
possible in this setting. To cope with the unit
problem, we propose a character-based chunk-
ing method. Firstly, the input sentence is an-
alyzed redundantly by a statistical morpholog-
ical analyzer to produce multiple (n-best) an-
swers. Then, each character is annotated with
its character types and its possible POS tags of
the top n-best answers. Finally, a support vec-
tor machine-based chunker picks up some por-
tions of the input sentence as NEs. This method
introduces richer information to the chunker
than previous methods that base on a single
morphological analysis result. We apply our
method to IREX NE extraction task. The cross
validation result of the F-measure being 87.2
shows the superiority and effectiveness of the
method.
1 