
We present an application of ambiguity pack-
ing and stochastic disambiguation techniques
for Lexical-Functional Grammars (LFG) to the
domain of sentence condensation. Our system
incorporates a linguistic parser/generator for
LFG, a transfer component for parse reduc-
tion operating on packed parse forests, and a
maximum-entropy model for stochastic output
selection. Furthermore, we propose the use of
standard parser evaluation methods for auto-
matically evaluating the summarization qual-
ity of sentence condensation systems. An ex-
perimental evaluation of summarization qual-
ity shows a close correlation between the au-
tomatic parse-based evaluation and a manual
evaluation of generated strings. Overall sum-
marization quality of the proposed system is
state-of-the-art, with guaranteed grammatical-
ity of the system output due to the use of a
constraint-based parser/generator.
1 