
This paper describes the CMU Let?s Go!! bus
information system, an experimental system
designed to study the use of spoken dialogue
interfaces by non-native speakers. The differ-
ences in performance of the speech recogni-
tion and language understanding modules of
the system when confronted with native and
non-native spontaneous speech are analyzed.
Focus is placed on the linguistic mismatch be-
tween the user input and the system?s expecta-
tions, and on its implications in terms of lan-
guage modeling and parsing performance. The
effect of including non-native data when build-
ing the speech recognition and language under-
standing modules is discussed. In order to close
the gap between non-native and native input, a
method is proposed to automatically generate
confirmation prompts that are both close to the
user?s input and covered by the system?s lan-
guage model and grammar, in order to help the
user acquire idiomatic expressions appropriate
to the task.
1 