
It is practically impossible to build a
word-based lexicon for speech recogni-
tion in agglutinative languages that would
cover all the relevant words. The prob-
lem is that words are generally built by
concatenating several prefixes and suffixes
to the word roots. Together with com-
pounding and inflections this leads to mil-
lions of different, but still frequent word
forms. Due to inflections, ambiguity and
other phenomena, it is also not trivial to
automatically split the words into mean-
ingful parts. Rule-based morphological
analyzers can perform this splitting, but
due to the handcrafted rules, they also suf-
fer from an out-of-vocabulary problem. In
this paper we apply a recently proposed
fully automatic and rather language and
vocabulary independent way to build sub-
word lexica for three different agglutina-
tive languages. We demonstrate the lan-
guage portability as well by building a
successful large vocabulary speech recog-
nizer for each language and show superior
recognition performance compared to the
corresponding word-based reference sys-
tems.
1 