
We present an approach to building a test
collection of research papers. The ap-
proach is based on the Cranfield 2 tests but
uses as its vehicle a current conference;
research questions and relevance judge-
ments of all cited papers are elicited from
conference authors. The resultant test col-
lection is different from TREC?s in that
it comprises scientific articles rather than
newspaper text and, thus, allows for IR
experiments that include citation informa-
tion. The test collection currently con-
sists of 170 queries with relevance judge-
ments; the document collection is the ACL
Anthology. We describe properties of
our queries and relevance judgements, and
demonstrate the use of the test collection
in an experimental setup. One potentially
problematic property of our collection is
that queries have a low number of relevant
documents; we discuss ways of alleviating
this.
1 