 
In this paper, we present a new string pat-
tern matching-based passage ranking al-
gorithm for extending traditional text-
based QA toward videoQA. Users interact 
with our videoQA system through natural 
language questions, while our system re-
turns passage fragments with correspond-
ing video clips as answers. We collect 
75.6 hours videos and 253 Chinese ques-
tions for evaluation. The experimental re-
sults showed that our method 
outperformed six top-performed ranking 
models. It is 10.16% better than the sec-
ond best method (language model) in rela-
tively MRR score and 6.12% in precision 
rate. Besides, we also show that the use of 
a trained Chinese word segmentation tool 
did decrease the overall videoQA per-
formance where most ranking algorithms 
dropped at least 10% in relatively MRR, 
precision, and answer pattern recall rates. 
1 