
We address the problem of analyzing mul-
tiple related opinions in a text. For in-
stance, in a restaurant review such opin-
ions may include food, ambience and ser-
vice. We formulate this task as a multiple
aspect ranking problem, where the goal is
to produce a set of numerical scores, one
for each aspect. We present an algorithm
that jointly learns ranking models for in-
dividual aspects by modeling the depen-
dencies between assigned ranks. This al-
gorithm guides the prediction of individ-
ual rankers by analyzing meta-relations
between opinions, such as agreement and
contrast. We prove that our agreement-
based joint model is more expressive than
individual ranking models. Our empirical
results further confirm the strength of the
model: the algorithm provides significant
improvement over both individual rankers
and a state-of-the-art joint ranking model.
1 