
This paper introduces the use of speech
translation technology for a new type of
voice-interactive Computer Aided Lan-
guage Learning (CALL) application. We
describe a computer game we have devel-
oped, in which the system presents sen-
tences in a student?s native language to
elicit spoken translations in the target new
language. A critical technology is an al-
gorithm to automatically verify the ap-
propriateness of the student?s translation
using linguistic analysis. Evaluation re-
sults are presented on the system?s abil-
ity to match human judgment of the cor-
rectness of a student?s translation, for a set
of 1115 utterances collected from 9 learn-
ers of Mandarin Chinese translating flight
domain sentences. We also demonstrate
the effective use of context information to
improve both recognition performance on
non-native speech as well as the system?s
accuracy in judging the translation quality.
1 