
This paper studies methods that automat-
ically detect action-items in e-mail, an
important category for assisting users in
identifying new tasks, tracking ongoing
ones, and searching for completed ones.
Since action-items consist of a short span
of text, classifiers that detect action-items
can be built from a document-level or a
sentence-level view. Rather than com-
mit to either view, we adapt a context-
sensitive metaclassification framework to
this problem to combine the rankings pro-
duced by different algorithms as well as
different views. While this framework is
known to work well for standard classi-
fication, its suitability for fusing rankers
has not been studied. In an empirical eval-
uation, the resulting approach yields im-
proved rankings that are less sensitive to
training set variation, and furthermore, the
theoretically-motivated reliability indica-
tors we introduce enable the metaclassi-
fier to now be applicable in any problem
where the base classifiers are used.
1 