 
With the in-depth study of sentiment analysis 
research, finer-grained opinion mining, which 
aims to detect opinions on different review fea-
tures as opposed to the whole review level, has 
been receiving more and more attention in the 
sentiment analysis research community re-
cently. Most of existing approaches rely mainly 
on the template extraction to identify the ex-
plicit relatedness between product feature and 
opinion terms, which is insufficient to detect 
the implicit review features and mine the hid-
den sentiment association in reviews, which 
satisfies (1) the review features are not appear 
explicit in the review sentences; (2) it can be 
deduced by the opinion words in its context. 
From an information theoretic point of view, 
this paper proposed an iterative reinforcement 
framework based on the improved information 
bottleneck algorithm to address such problem. 
More specifically, the approach clusters prod-
uct features and opinion words simultaneously 
and iteratively by fusing both their semantic in-
formation and co-occurrence information. The 
experimental results demonstrate that our ap-
proach outperforms the template extraction 
based approaches. 
1 