
Some of the Follow-Up Questions (FU Q) that
an Interactive Question Answering (IQA) sys-
tem receives are not topic shifts, but rather
continuations of the previous topic. In this pa-
per, we propose an empirical framework to ex-
plore such questions, with two related goals in
mind: (1) modeling the different relations that
hold between the FU Q?s answer and either the
FU Q or the preceding dialogue, and (2) show-
ing how this model can be used to identify the
correct answer among several answer candi-
dates. For both cases, we use Logistic Regres-
sion Models that we learn from real IQA data
collected through a live system. We show that
by adding dialogue context features and fea-
tures based on sequences of domain-specific
actions that represent the questions and an-
swers, we obtain important additional predic-
tors for the model, and improve the accuracy
with which our system finds correct answers.
1 