
We address a text regression problem: given a
piece of text, predict a real-world continuous
quantity associated with the text?s meaning. In
this work, the text is an SEC-mandated finan-
cial report published annually by a publicly-
traded company, and the quantity to be pre-
dicted is volatility of stock returns, an empiri-
cal measure of financial risk. We apply well-
known regression techniques to a large cor-
pus of freely available financial reports, con-
structing regression models of volatility for
the period following a report. Our models ri-
val past volatility (a strong baseline) in pre-
dicting the target variable, and a single model
that uses both can significantly outperform
past volatility. Interestingly, our approach is
more accurate for reports after the passage of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, giving some
evidence for the success of that legislation in
making financial reports more informative.
1 