
Machine translation benefits from two types
of decoding techniques: consensus decoding
over multiple hypotheses under a single model
and system combination over hypotheses from
different models. We present model combina-
tion, a method that integrates consensus de-
coding and system combination into a uni-
fied, forest-based technique. Our approach
makes few assumptions about the underly-
ing component models, enabling us to com-
bine systems with heterogenous structure. Un-
like most system combination techniques, we
reuse the search space of component models,
which entirely avoids the need to align trans-
lation hypotheses. Despite its relative sim-
plicity, model combination improves trans-
lation quality over a pipelined approach of
first applying consensus decoding to individ-
ual systems, and then applying system combi-
nation to their output. We demonstrate BLEU
improvements across data sets and language
pairs in large-scale experiments.
1 