
We present a random-walk-based approach to
learning paraphrases from bilingual parallel
corpora. The corpora are represented as a
graph in which a node corresponds to a phrase,
and an edge exists between two nodes if their
corresponding phrases are aligned in a phrase
table. We sample random walks to compute
the average number of steps it takes to reach
a ranking of paraphrases with better ones be-
ing ?closer? to a phrase of interest. This ap-
proach allows ?feature? nodes that represent
domain knowledge to be built into the graph,
and incorporates truncation techniques to pre-
vent the graph from growing too large for ef-
ficiency. Current approaches, by contrast, im-
plicitly presuppose the graph to be bipartite,
are limited to finding paraphrases that are of
length two away from a phrase, and do not
generally permit easy incorporation of domain
knowledge. Manual evaluation of generated
output shows that our approach outperforms
the state-of-the-art system of Callison-Burch
(2008).
1 