
Document-level sentiment analysis can bene-
fit from fine-grained subjectivity, so that sen-
timent polarity judgments are based on the
relevant parts of the document. While fine-
grained subjectivity annotations are rarely
available, encouraging results have been ob-
tained by modeling subjectivity as a latent
variable. However, latent variable models
fail to capitalize on our linguistic knowledge
about discourse structure. We present a new
method for injecting linguistic knowledge into
latent variable subjectivity modeling, using
discourse connectors. Connector-augmented
transition features allow the latent variable
model to learn the relevance of discourse con-
nectors for subjectivity transitions, without
subjectivity annotations. This yields signif-
icantly improved performance on document-
level sentiment analysis in English and Span-
ish. We also describe a simple heuristic for
automatically identifying connectors when no
predefined list is available.
1 