
Our goal is to extract answers from pre-
retrieved sentences for Question Answering
(QA). We construct a linear-chain Conditional
Random Field based on pairs of questions
and their possible answer sentences, learning
the association between questions and answer
types. This casts answer extraction as an an-
swer sequence tagging problem for the first
time, where knowledge of shared structure be-
tween question and source sentence is incor-
porated through features based on Tree Edit
Distance (TED). Our model is free of man-
ually created question and answer templates,
fast to run (processing 200 QA pairs per sec-
ond excluding parsing time), and yields an F1
of 63.3% on a new public dataset based on
prior TREC QA evaluations. The developed
system is open-source, and includes an imple-
mentation of the TED model that is state of the
art in the task of ranking QA pairs.
1 