
This paper examines tuning for statistical ma-
chine translation (SMT) with respect to mul-
tiple evaluation metrics. We propose several
novel methods for tuning towards multiple ob-
jectives, including some based on ensemble
decoding methods. Pareto-optimality is a nat-
ural way to think about multi-metric optimiza-
tion (MMO) and our methods can effectively
combine several Pareto-optimal solutions, ob-
viating the need to choose one. Our best
performing ensemble tuning method is a new
algorithm for multi-metric optimization that
searches for Pareto-optimal ensemble models.
We study the effectiveness of our methods
through experiments on multiple as well as
single reference(s) datasets. Our experiments
show simultaneous gains across several met-
rics (BLEU, RIBES), without any significant
reduction in other metrics. This contrasts the
traditional tuning where gains are usually lim-
ited to a single metric. Our human evaluation
results confirm that in order to produce better
MT output, optimizing multiple metrics is bet-
ter than optimizing only one.
1 