
This paper presents an algorithm for
text summarization using the the-
matic hierarchy of a text. The algo-
rithm is intended to generate a one-
page summary for the user, thereby
enabling the user to skim large vol-
umes of an electronic book on a
computer display. The algorithm
rst detects the thematic hierarchy
of a source text with lexical cohe-
sion measured by term repetitions.
Then, it identies boundary sen-
tences at which a topic of appropri-
ate grading probably starts. Finally,
it generates a structured summary
indicating the outline of the the-
matic hierarchy. This paper mainly
describes and evaluates the part for
boundary sentence identication in
the algorithm, and then briey dis-
cusses the readability of one-page
summaries.
1 