
Extractive summarization techniques
cannot generate document summaries
shorter than a single sentence, some-
thing that is often required. An ideal
summarization system would under-
stand each document and generate an
appropriate summary directly from the
results of that understanding. A more
practical approach to this problem re-
sults in the use of an approximation:
viewing summarization as a problem
analogous to statistical machine trans-
lation. The issue then becomes one of
generating a target document in a more
concise language from a source docu-
ment in a more verbose language. This
paper presents results on experiments
using this approach, in which statisti-
cal models of the term selection and
term ordering are jointly applied to pro-
duce summaries in a style learned from
a training corpus.
1 