
In this paper, we compare the rela-
tive effects of segment order, segmen-
tation and segment contiguity on the
retrieval performance of a translation
memory system. We take a selec-
tion of both bag-of-words and segment
order-sensitive string comparison meth-
ods, and run each over both character-
and word-segmented data, in combina-
tion with a range of local segment con-
tiguity models (in the form of N-grams).
Over two distinct datasets, we find that
indexing according to simple character
bigrams produces a retrieval accuracy
superior to any of the tested word N-
gram models. Further, in their optimum
configuration, bag-of-words methods are
shown to be equivalent to segment order-
sensitive methods in terms of retrieval
accuracy, but much faster. We also pro-
vide evidence that our findings are scal-
able.
1 