
This paper presents a method that as-
sists in maintaining a rule-based
named-entity recognition and classifi-
cation system. The underlying idea is to
use a separate system, constructed with
the use of machine learning, to monitor
the performance of the rule-based sys-
tem. The training data for the second
system is generated with the use of the
rule-based system, thus avoiding the
need for manual tagging. The dis-
agreement of the two systems acts as a
signal for updating the rule-based sys-
tem. The generality of the approach is
illustrated by applying it to large cor-
pora in two different languages: Greek
and French. The results are very en-
couraging, showing that this alternative
use of machine learning can assist sig-
nificantly in the maintenance of rule-
based systems.
1 