
This paper describes a simple pattern-
matching algorithm for recovering empty
nodes and identifying their co-indexed an-
tecedents in phrase structure trees that do
not contain this information. The pat-
terns are minimal connected tree frag-
ments containing an empty node and all
other nodes co-indexed with it. This pa-
per also proposes an evaluation proce-
dure for empty node recovery procedures
which is independent of most of the de-
tails of phrase structure, which makes it
possible to compare the performance of
empty node recovery on parser output
with the empty node annotations in a gold-
standard corpus. Evaluating the algorithm
on the output of Charniak?s parser (Char-
niak, 2000) and the Penn treebank (Mar-
cus et al, 1993) shows that the pattern-
matching algorithm does surprisingly well
on the most frequently occuring types of
empty nodes given its simplicity.
1 