
We address appropriate user modeling in
order to generate cooperative responses to
each user in spoken dialogue systems. Un-
like previous studies that focus on user?s
knowledge or typical kinds of users, the
user model we propose is more compre-
hensive. Specifically, we set up three di-
mensions of user models: skill level to
the system, knowledge level on the tar-
get domain and the degree of hastiness.
Moreover, the models are automatically
derived by decision tree learning using
real dialogue data collected by the sys-
tem. We obtained reasonable classifica-
tion accuracy for all dimensions. Dia-
logue strategies based on the user model-
ing are implemented in Kyoto city bus in-
formation system that has been developed
at our laboratory. Experimental evalua-
tion shows that the cooperative responses
adaptive to individual users serve as good
guidance for novice users without increas-
ing the dialogue duration for skilled users.
1 