
This paper describes an extension of the se-
mantic grammars used in conventional sta-
tistical spoken language interfaces to allow
the probabilities of derived analyses to be
conditioned on the meanings or denotations
of input utterances in the context of an
interface's underlying application environ-
ment or world model. Since these denota-
tions will be used to guide disambiguation
in interactive applications, they must be ef-
ciently shared among the many possible
analyses that may be assigned to an input
utterance. This paper therefore presents a
formal restriction on the scope of variables
in a semantic grammar which guarantees
that the denotations of all possible analy-
ses of an input utterance can be calculated
in polynomial time, without undue con-
straints on the expressivity of the derived
semantics. Empirical tests show that this
model-theoretic interpretation yields a sta-
tistically signicant improvement on stan-
dard measures of parsing accuracy over a
baseline grammar not conditioned on deno-
tations.
1 