
Standard IR systems can process queries
such as ?web NOT internet?, enabling users
who are interested in arachnids to avoid
documents about computing. The docu-
ments retrieved for such a query should be
irrelevant to the negated query term. Most
systems implement this by reprocessing re-
sults after retrieval to remove documents
containing the unwanted string of letters.
This paper describes and evaluates a the-
oretically motivated method for removing
unwanted meanings directly from the orig-
inal query in vector models, with the same
vector negation operator as used in quan-
tum logic. Irrelevance in vector spaces is
modelled using orthogonality, so query vec-
tors are made orthogonal to the negated
term or terms.
As well as removing unwanted terms, this
form of vector negation reduces the occur-
rence of synonyms and neighbours of the
negated terms by as much as 76% compared
with standard Boolean methods. By alter-
ing the query vector itself, vector negation
removes not only unwanted strings but un-
wanted meanings.
1 