
This paper proposes a principled approach
for analysis of semantic relations between
constituents in compound nouns based on
lexical semantic structure. One of the
difficulties of compound noun analysis is
that the mechanisms governing the deci-
sion system of semantic relations and the
representation method of semantic rela-
tions associated with lexical and contex-
tual meaning are not obvious. The aim of
our research is to clarify how lexical se-
mantics contribute to the relations in com-
pound nouns since such nouns are very
productive and are supposed to be gov-
erned by systematic mechanisms. The
results of applying our approach to the
analysis of noun-deverbal compounds in
Japanese and English show that lexical
conceptual structure contributes to the re-
strictional rules in compounds.
1 