
We present an approach using syntacto-
semantic rules for the extraction of rela-
tional information from biomedical ab-
stracts. The results show that by over-
coming the hurdle of technical termi-
nology, high precision results can be
achieved. From abstracts related to
baker?s yeast, we manage to extract a
regulatory network comprised of 441
pairwise relations from 58,664 abstracts
with an accuracy of 83?90%. To achieve
this, we made use of a resource of
gene/protein names considerably larger
than those used in most other biology re-
lated information extraction approaches.
This list of names was included in the
lexicon of our retrained part-of-speech
tagger for use on molecular biology ab-
stracts. For the domain in question an
accuracy of 93.6?97.7% was attained on
POS-tags. The method is easily adapted
to other organisms than yeast, allowing
us to extract many more biologically rel-
evant relations.
1 