 
Extracting semantic relationships between en-
tities is challenging. This paper investigates 
the incorporation of diverse lexical, syntactic 
and semantic knowledge in feature-based rela-
tion extraction using SVM. Our study illus-
trates that the base phrase chunking 
information is very effective for relation ex-
traction and contributes to most of the per-
formance improvement from syntactic aspect 
while additional information from full parsing 
gives limited further enhancement. This sug-
gests that most of useful information in full 
parse trees for relation extraction is shallow 
and can be captured by chunking. We also 
demonstrate how semantic information such as 
WordNet and Name List, can be used in fea-
ture-based relation extraction to further im-
prove the performance. Evaluation on the 
ACE corpus shows that effective incorporation 
of diverse features enables our system outper-
form previously best-reported systems on the 
24 ACE relation subtypes and significantly 
outperforms tree kernel-based systems by over 
20 in F-measure on the 5 ACE relation types. 
1 