
We present new statistical models for
jointly labeling multiple sequences and
apply them to the combined task of part-
of-speech tagging and noun phrase chunk-
ing. The model is based on the Factorial
Hidden Markov Model (FHMM) with dis-
tributed hidden states representing part-
of-speech and noun phrase sequences. We
demonstrate that this joint labeling ap-
proach, by enabling information sharing
between tagging/chunking subtasks, out-
performs the traditional method of tag-
ging and chunking in succession. Fur-
ther, we extend this into a novel model,
Switching FHMM, to allow for explicit
modeling of cross-sequence dependencies
based on linguistic knowledge. We report
tagging/chunking accuracies for varying
dataset sizes and show that our approach
is relatively robust to data sparsity.
1 