 
We propose a robust method of auto-
matically constructing a bilingual word 
sense dictionary from readily available 
monolingual ontologies by using esti-
mation-maximization, without any an-
notated training data or manual tuning. 
We demonstrate our method on the 
English FrameNet and Chinese HowNet 
structures. Owing to the robustness of 
EM iterations in improving translation 
likelihoods, our word sense translation 
accuracies are very high, at 82% on av-
erage, for the 11 most ambiguous words 
in the English FrameNet with 5 senses 
or more. We also carried out a pilot 
study on using this automatically gener-
ated bilingual word sense dictionary to 
choose the best translation candidates 
and show the first significant evidence 
that frame semantics are useful for 
translation disambiguation. Translation 
disambiguation accuracy using frame 
semantics is 75%, compared to 15% by 
using dictionary glossing only.  These 
results demonstrate the great potential 
for future application of bilingual frame 
semantics to machine translation tasks.  
1 