 
Using abundant Web resources to mine 
Chinese term translations can be applied 
in many fields such as reading/writing as-
sistant, machine translation and cross-
language information retrieval. In mining 
English translations of Chinese terms, 
how to obtain effective Web pages and 
evaluate translation candidates are two 
challenging issues. In this paper, the ap-
proach based on semantic prediction is 
first proposed to obtain effective Web 
pages. The proposed method predicts 
possible English meanings according to 
each constituent unit of Chinese term, and 
expands these English items using 
semantically relevant knowledge for 
searching. The refined related terms are 
extracted from top retrieved documents 
through feedback learning to construct a 
new query expansion for acquiring more 
effective Web pages. For obtaining a cor-
rect translation list, a translation 
evaluation method in the weighted sum of 
multi-features is presented to rank these 
candidates estimated from effective Web 
pages. Experimental results demonstrate 
that the proposed method has good per-
formance in Chinese-English term trans-
lation acquisition, and achieves 82.9% 
accuracy. 
1 