 
Negative life events play an important 
role in triggering depressive episodes. 
Developing psychiatric services that can 
automatically identify such events is 
beneficial for mental health care and pre-
vention. Before these services can be 
provided, some meaningful semantic pat-
terns, such as <lost, parents>, have to be 
extracted. In this work, we present a text 
mining framework capable of inducing 
variable-length semantic patterns from 
unannotated psychiatry web resources. 
This framework integrates a cognitive 
motivated model, Hyperspace Analog to 
Language (HAL), to represent words as 
well as combinations of words. Then, a 
cascaded induction process (CIP) boot-
straps with a small set of seed patterns 
and incorporates relevance feedback to 
iteratively induce more relevant patterns. 
The experimental results show that by 
combining the HAL model and relevance 
feedback, the CIP can induce semantic 
patterns from the unannotated web cor-
pora so as to reduce the reliance on anno-
tated corpora. 
1 