
To enable conversational QA, it is impor-
tant to examine key issues addressed in
conversational systems in the context of
question answering. In conversational sys-
tems, understanding user intent is criti-
cal to the success of interaction. Recent
studies have also shown that the capabil-
ity to automatically identify problematic
situations during interaction can signifi-
cantly improve the system performance.
Therefore, this paper investigates the new
implications of user intent and problem-
atic situations in the context of question
answering. Our studies indicate that, in
basic interactive QA, there are different
types of user intent that are tied to dif-
ferent kinds of system performance (e.g.,
problematic/error free situations). Once
users are motivated to find specific infor-
mation related to their information goals,
the interaction context can provide useful
cues for the system to automatically iden-
tify problematic situations and user intent.
1 