
Unification grammars are widely accepted
as an expressive means for describing the
structure of natural languages. In gen-
eral, the recognition problem is undecid-
able for unification grammars. Even with
restricted variants of the formalism, off-
line parsable grammars, the problem is
computationally hard. We present two nat-
ural constraints on unification grammars
which limit their expressivity. We first
show that non-reentrant unification gram-
mars generate exactly the class of context-
free languages. We then relax the con-
straint and show that one-reentrant unifi-
cation grammars generate exactly the class
of tree-adjoining languages. We thus re-
late the commonly used and linguistically
motivated formalism of unification gram-
mars to more restricted, computationally
tractable classes of languages.
1 