 
This paper explores the relationship be-
tween the translation quality and the re-
trieval effectiveness in Machine Transla-
tion (MT) based Cross-Language Infor-
mation Retrieval (CLIR). To obtain MT 
systems of different translation quality, 
we degrade a rule-based MT system by 
decreasing the size of the rule base and 
the size of the dictionary. We use the de-
graded MT systems to translate queries 
and submit the translated queries of vary-
ing quality to the IR system. Retrieval ef-
fectiveness is found to correlate highly 
with the translation quality of the queries. 
We further analyze the factors that affect 
the retrieval effectiveness. Title queries 
are found to be preferred in MT-based 
CLIR. In addition, dictionary-based deg-
radation is shown to have stronger impact 
than rule-based degradation in MT-based 
CLIR. 
1 