
We propose a novel algorithm for inducing seman-
tic taxonomies. Previous algorithms for taxonomy
induction have typically focused on independent
classifiers for discovering new single relationships
based on hand-constructed or automatically discov-
ered textual patterns. By contrast, our algorithm
flexibly incorporates evidence from multiple clas-
sifiers over heterogenous relationships to optimize
the entire structure of the taxonomy, using knowl-
edge of a word?s coordinate terms to help in deter-
mining its hypernyms, and vice versa. We apply our
algorithm on the problem of sense-disambiguated
noun hyponym acquisition, where we combine the
predictions of hypernym and coordinate term clas-
sifiers with the knowledge in a preexisting seman-
tic taxonomy (WordNet 2.1). We add 10, 000 novel
synsets to WordNet 2.1 at 84% precision, a rela-
tive error reduction of 70% over a non-joint algo-
rithm using the same component classifiers. Fi-
nally, we show that a taxonomy built using our al-
gorithm shows a 23% relative F-score improvement
over WordNet 2.1 on an independent testset of hy-
pernym pairs.
1 