
We present an algorithm for automatically
disambiguating noun-noun compounds by
deducing the correct semantic relation be-
tween their constituent words. This algo-
rithm uses a corpus of 2,500 compounds
annotated with WordNet senses and cov-
ering 139 different semantic relations (we
make this corpus available online for re-
searchers interested in the semantics of
noun-noun compounds). The algorithm
takes as input the WordNet senses for the
nouns in a compound, finds all parent
senses (hypernyms) of those senses, and
searches the corpus for other compounds
containing any pair of those senses. The
relation with the highest proportional co-
occurrence with any sense pair is returned
as the correct relation for the compound.
This algorithm was tested using a ?leave-
one-out? procedure on the corpus of com-
pounds. The algorithm identified the cor-
rect relations for compounds with high
precision: in 92% of cases where a re-
lation was found with a proportional co-
occurrence of 1.0, it was the correct re-
lation for the compound being disam-
biguated.
Keywords: Noun-Noun Compounds, Conceputal
Combination, Word Relations, WordNet
1 