
As natural language understanding re-
search advances towards deeper knowledge
modeling, the tasks become more and more
complex: we are interested in more nu-
anced word characteristics, more linguistic
properties, deeper semantic and syntactic
features. One such example, explored in
this article, is the mention detection and
recognition task in the Automatic Content
Extraction project, with the goal of iden-
tifying named, nominal or pronominal ref-
erences to real-world entities?mentions?
and labeling them with three types of in-
formation: entity type, entity subtype and
mention type. In this article, we investi-
gate three methods of assigning these re-
lated tags and compare them on several
data sets. A system based on the methods
presented in this article participated and
ranked very competitively in the ACE?04
evaluation.
1 