
As an area of great linguistic and cul-
tural diversity, Asian language resources
have received much less attention than
their western counterparts. Creating a
common standard for Asian language re-
sources that is compatible with an interna-
tional standard has at least three strong ad-
vantages: to increase the competitive edge
of Asian countries, to bring Asian coun-
tries to closer to their western counter-
parts, and to bring more cohesion among
Asian countries. To achieve this goal, we
have launched a two year project to create
a common standard for Asian language re-
sources. The project is comprised of four
research items, (1) building a description
framework of lexical entries, (2) building
sample lexicons, (3) building an upper-
layer ontology and (4) evaluating the pro-
posed framework through an application.
This paper outlines the project in terms of
its aim and approach.
1 