 
Due to the historical and cultural reasons, 
English phases, especially the proper 
nouns and new words, frequently appear 
in Web pages written primarily in Asian 
languages such as Chinese and Korean. 
Although these English terms and their 
equivalences in the Asian languages refer 
to the same concept, they are erroneously 
treated as independent index units in tra-
ditional Information Retrieval (IR). This 
paper describes the degree to which the 
problem arises in IR and suggests a novel 
technique to solve it. Our method firstly 
extracts an English phrase from Asian 
language Web pages, and then unifies the 
extracted phrase and its equivalence(s) in 
the language as one index unit. Experi-
mental results show that the high preci-
sion of our conceptual unification ap-
proach greatly improves the IR perform-
ance. 
1 