 
In this paper, we discuss how to utilize 
the co-occurrence of answers in building 
an automatic question answering system 
that answers a series of questions on a 
specific topic in a batch mode. Experi-
ments show that the answers to the many 
of the questions in the series usually have 
a high degree of co-occurrence in rele-
vant document passages. This feature 
sometimes can?t be easily utilized in an 
automatic QA system which processes 
questions independently. However it can 
be utilized in a QA system that processes 
questions in a batch mode. We have used 
our pervious TREC QA system as base-
line and augmented it with new answer 
clustering and co-occurrence maximiza-
tion components to build the batch QA 
system. The experiment results show that 
the QA system running under the batch 
mode get significant performance im-
provement over our baseline TREC QA 
system.   
1 