
We are presenting a new, hybrid align-
ment architecture for aligning bilingual,
linguistically annotated parallel corpora.
It is able to align simultaneously at para-
graph, sentence, phrase and word level,
using statistical and heuristic cues, along
with linguistics-based rules. The system
currently aligns English and German texts,
and the linguistic annotation used covers
POS-tags, lemmas and syntactic constitu-
tents. However, as the system is highly
modular, we can easily adapt it to new lan-
guage pairs and other types of annotation.
The hybrid nature of the system allows
experiments with a variety of alignment
cues to find solutions to word alignment
problems like the correct alignment of rare
words and multiwords, or how to align
despite syntactic differences between two
languages.
First performance tests are promising, and
we are setting up a gold standard for a
thorough evaluation of the system.
1 