
Call centers handle customer queries from various
domains such as computer sales and support, mo-
bile phones, car rental, etc. Each such domain
generally has a domain model which is essential
to handle customer complaints. These models
contain common problem categories, typical cus-
tomer issues and their solutions, greeting styles.
Currently these models are manually created over
time. Towards this, we propose an unsupervised
technique to generate domain models automati-
cally from call transcriptions. We use a state of
the art Automatic Speech Recognition system to
transcribe the calls between agents and customers,
which still results in high word error rates (40%)
and show that even from these noisy transcrip-
tions of calls we can automatically build a domain
model. The domain model is comprised of pri-
marily a topic taxonomy where every node is char-
acterized by topic(s), typical Questions-Answers
(Q&As), typical actions and call statistics. We
show how such a domain model can be used for
topic identification of unseen calls. We also pro-
pose applications for aiding agents while handling
calls and for agent monitoring based on the do-
main model.
1 