
We investigate the use of machine learn-
ing in combination with feature engineer-
ing techniques to explore human multi-
modal clarification strategies and the use
of those strategies for dialogue systems.
We learn from data collected in a Wizard-
of-Oz study where different wizards could
decide whether to ask a clarification re-
quest in a multimodal manner or else use
speech alone. We show that there is a
uniform strategy across wizards which is
based on multiple features in the context.
These are generic runtime features which
can be implemented in dialogue systems.
Our prediction models achieve a weighted
f-score of 85.3% (which is a 25.5% im-
provement over a one-rule baseline). To
assess the effects of models, feature dis-
cretisation, and selection, we also conduct
a regression analysis. We then interpret
and discuss the use of the learnt strategy
for dialogue systems. Throughout the in-
vestigation we discuss the issues arising
from using small initial Wizard-of-Oz data
sets, and we show that feature engineer-
ing is an essential step when learning from
such limited data.
1 