
This paper investigates the use of sublexi-
cal units as a solution to handling the com-
plex morphology with productive deriva-
tional processes, in the development of
a lexical functional grammar for Turkish.
Such sublexical units make it possible to
expose the internal structure of words with
multiple derivations to the grammar rules
in a uniform manner. This in turn leads to
more succinct and manageable rules. Fur-
ther, the semantics of the derivations can
also be systematically reflected in a com-
positional way by constructing PRED val-
ues on the fly. We illustrate how we use
sublexical units for handling simple pro-
ductive derivational morphology and more
interesting cases such as causativization,
etc., which change verb valency. Our pri-
ority is to handle several linguistic phe-
nomena in order to observe the effects of
our approach on both the c-structure and
the f-structure representation, and gram-
mar writing, leaving the coverage and
evaluation issues aside for the moment.
1 