
We present a novel approach for discov-
ering word categories, sets of words shar-
ing a significant aspect of their mean-
ing. We utilize meta-patterns of high-
frequency words and content words in or-
der to discover pattern candidates. Sym-
metric patterns are then identified using
graph-based measures, and word cate-
gories are created based on graph clique
sets. Our method is the first pattern-based
method that requires no corpus annota-
tion or manually provided seed patterns
or words. We evaluate our algorithm on
very large corpora in two languages, us-
ing both human judgments and WordNet-
based evaluation. Our fully unsupervised
results are superior to previous work that
used a POS tagged corpus, and computa-
tion time for huge corpora are orders of
magnitude faster than previously reported.
1 