 
Chatting is a popular communication 
media on the Internet via ICQ, chat 
rooms, etc. Chat language is different 
from natural language due to its anoma-
lous and dynamic natures, which renders 
conventional NLP tools inapplicable. The 
dynamic problem is enormously trouble-
some because it makes static chat lan-
guage corpus outdated quickly in repre-
senting contemporary chat language. To 
address the dynamic problem, we pro-
pose the phonetic mapping models to 
present mappings between chat terms and 
standard words via phonetic transcrip-
tion, i.e. Chinese Pinyin in our case. Dif-
ferent from character mappings, the pho-
netic mappings can be constructed from 
available standard Chinese corpus. To 
perform the task of dynamic chat lan-
guage term normalization, we extend the 
source channel model by incorporating 
the phonetic mapping models. Experi-
mental results show that this method is 
effective and stable in normalizing dy-
namic chat language terms. 
1 