
In this paper, we present a novel global re-
ordering model that can be incorporated
into standard phrase-based statistical ma-
chine translation. Unlike previous local
reordering models that emphasize the re-
ordering of adjacent phrase pairs (Till-
mann and Zhang, 2005), our model ex-
plicitly models the reordering of long dis-
tances by directly estimating the parame-
ters from the phrase alignments of bilin-
gual training sentences. In principle, the
global phrase reordering model is condi-
tioned on the source and target phrases
that are currently being translated, and
the previously translated source and tar-
get phrases. To cope with sparseness, we
use N-best phrase alignments and bilin-
gual phrase clustering, and investigate a
variety of combinations of conditioning
factors. Through experiments, we show,
that the global reordering model signifi-
cantly improves the translation accuracy
of a standard Japanese-English translation
task.
1 