
In this paper, we compare the per-
formance of a state-of-the-art statistical
parser (Bikel, 2004) in parsing written and
spoken language and in generating sub-
categorization cues from written and spo-
ken language. Although Bikel?s parser
achieves a higher accuracy for parsing
written language, it achieves a higher ac-
curacy when extracting subcategorization
cues from spoken language. Our exper-
iments also show that current technology
for extracting subcategorization frames
initially designed for written texts works
equally well for spoken language. Addi-
tionally, we explore the utility of punctu-
ation in helping parsing and extraction of
subcategorization cues. Our experiments
show that punctuation is of little help in
parsing spoken language and extracting
subcategorization cues from spoken lan-
guage. This indicates that there is no need
to add punctuation in transcribing spoken
corpora simply in order to help parsers.
1 