
Semantic parsing is the task of mapping
natural language sentences to complete
formal meaning representations. The per-
formance of semantic parsing can be po-
tentially improved by using discrimina-
tive reranking, which explores arbitrary
global features. In this paper, we investi-
gate discriminative reranking upon a base-
line semantic parser, SCISSOR, where the
composition of meaning representations is
guided by syntax. We examine if features
used for syntactic parsing can be adapted
for semantic parsing by creating similar
semantic features based on the mapping
between syntax and semantics. We re-
port experimental results on two real ap-
plications, an interpreter for coaching in-
structions in robotic soccer and a natural-
language database interface. The results
show that reranking can improve the per-
formance on the coaching interpreter, but
not on the database interface.
1 