 
Thesauri and ontologies provide impor-
tant value in facilitating access to digital 
archives by representing underlying prin-
ciples of organization.  Translation of 
such resources into multiple languages is 
an important component for providing 
multilingual access.  However, the speci-
ficity of vocabulary terms in most on-
tologies precludes fully-automated ma-
chine translation using general-domain 
lexical resources.  In this paper, we pre-
sent an efficient process for leveraging 
human translations when constructing 
domain-specific lexical resources.  We 
evaluate the effectiveness of this process 
by producing a probabilistic phrase dic-
tionary and translating a thesaurus of 
56,000 concepts used to catalogue a large 
archive of oral histories.  Our experi-
ments demonstrate a cost-effective tech-
nique for accurate machine translation of 
large ontologies. 
1 