
In evaluating the output of language tech-
nology applications?MT, natural language
generation, summarisation?automatic eval-
uation techniques generally conflate mea-
surement of faithfulness to source content
with fluency of the resulting text. In this
paper we develop an automatic evaluation
metric to estimate fluency alone, by examin-
ing the use of parser outputs as metrics, and
show that they correlate with human judge-
ments of generated text fluency. We then de-
velop a machine learner based on these, and
show that this performs better than the indi-
vidual parser metrics, approaching a lower
bound on human performance. We finally
look at different language models for gener-
ating sentences, and show that while individ-
ual parser metrics can be ?fooled? depending
on generation method, the machine learner
provides a consistent estimator of fluency.
1 