
Recently, confusion network decoding has
been applied in machine translation system
combination. Due to errors in the hypoth-
esis alignment, decoding may result in un-
grammatical combination outputs. This pa-
per describes an improved confusion net-
work based method to combine outputs from
multiple MT systems. In this approach, ar-
bitrary features may be added log-linearly
into the objective function, thus allowing
language model expansion and re-scoring.
Also, a novel method to automatically se-
lect the hypothesis which other hypotheses
are aligned against is proposed. A generic
weight tuning algorithm may be used to op-
timize various automatic evaluation metrics
including TER, BLEU and METEOR. The
experiments using the 2005 Arabic to En-
glish and Chinese to English NIST MT eval-
uation tasks show significant improvements
in BLEU scores compared to earlier confu-
sion network decoding based methods.
1 