
Deriving the polarity and strength of opinions
is an important research topic, attracting sig-
nificant attention over the last few years. In
this work, to measure the strength and po-
larity of an opinion, we consider the eco-
nomic context in which the opinion is eval-
uated, instead of using human annotators or
linguistic resources. We rely on the fact that
text in on-line systems influences the behav-
ior of humans and this effect can be observed
using some easy-to-measure economic vari-
ables, such as revenues or product prices. By
reversing the logic, we infer the semantic ori-
entation and strength of an opinion by tracing
the changes in the associated economic vari-
able. In effect, we use econometrics to iden-
tify the ?economic value of text? and assign a
?dollar value? to each opinion phrase, measur-
ing sentiment effectively and without the need
for manual labeling. We argue that by inter-
preting opinions using econometrics, we have
the first objective, quantifiable, and context-
sensitive evaluation of opinions. We make the
discussion concrete by presenting results on
the reputation system of Amazon.com. We
show that user feedback affects the pricing
power of merchants and by measuring their
pricing power we can infer the polarity and
strength of the underlying feedback postings.
1 