
In this paper, we propose a novel discrim-
inative language model, which can be ap-
plied quite generally. Compared to the
well known N-gram language models, dis-
criminative language models can achieve
more accurate discrimination because they
can employ overlapping features and non-
local information. However, discriminative
language models have been used only for
re-ranking in specific applications because
negative examples are not available. We
propose sampling pseudo-negative examples
taken from probabilistic language models.
However, this approach requires prohibitive
computational cost if we are dealing with
quite a few features and training samples.
We tackle the problem by estimating the la-
tent information in sentences using a semi-
Markov class model, and then extracting
features from them. We also use an on-
line margin-based algorithm with efficient
kernel computation. Experimental results
show that pseudo-negative examples can be
treated as real negative examples and our
model can classify these sentences correctly.
1 