 
Though both document summarization and 
keyword extraction aim to extract concise 
representations from documents, these two 
tasks have usually been investigated inde-
pendently. This paper proposes a novel it-
erative reinforcement approach to simulta-
neously extracting summary and keywords 
from single document under the assump-
tion that the summary and keywords of a 
document can be mutually boosted. The 
approach can naturally make full use of the 
reinforcement between sentences and key-
words by fusing three kinds of relation-
ships between sentences and words, either 
homogeneous or heterogeneous. Experi-
mental results show the effectiveness of the 
proposed approach for both tasks. The cor-
pus-based approach is validated to work 
almost as well as the knowledge-based ap-
proach for computing word semantics.  
1 