 
This paper proposes a novel method for 
phrase-based statistical machine translation 
by using pivot language. To conduct trans-
lation between languages Lf and Le with a 
small bilingual corpus, we bring in a third 
language Lp, which is named the pivot lan-
guage. For Lf-Lp and Lp-Le, there exist 
large bilingual corpora. Using only Lf-Lp 
and Lp-Le bilingual corpora, we can build a 
translation model for Lf-Le. The advantage 
of this method lies in that we can perform 
translation between Lf and Le even if there 
is no bilingual corpus available for this 
language pair. Using BLEU as a metric, 
our pivot language method achieves an ab-
solute improvement of 0.06 (22.13% rela-
tive) as compared with the model directly 
trained with 5,000 Lf-Le sentence pairs for 
French-Spanish translation. Moreover, with 
a small Lf-Le bilingual corpus available, 
our method can further improve the transla-
tion quality by using the additional Lf-Lp 
and Lp-Le bilingual corpora. 
1 