
This paper presents an approach for the au-
tomatic acquisition of qualia structures for
nouns from the Web and thus opens the pos-
sibility to explore the impact of qualia struc-
tures for natural language processing at a
larger scale. The approach builds on ear-
lier work based on the idea of matching spe-
cific lexico-syntactic patterns conveying a
certain semantic relation on the World Wide
Web using standard search engines. In our
approach, the qualia elements are actually
ranked for each qualia role with respect to
some measure. The specific contribution of
the paper lies in the extensive analysis and
quantitative comparison of different mea-
sures for ranking the qualia elements. Fur-
ther, for the first time, we present a quan-
titative evaluation of such an approach for
learning qualia structures with respect to a
handcrafted gold standard.
1 