 
Psychiatric document retrieval attempts to 
help people to efficiently and effectively 
locate the consultation documents relevant 
to their depressive problems. Individuals 
can understand how to alleviate their symp-
toms according to recommendations in the 
relevant documents. This work proposes 
the use of high-level topic information ex-
tracted from consultation documents to im-
prove the precision of retrieval results. The 
topic information adopted herein includes 
negative life events, depressive symptoms 
and semantic relations between symptoms, 
which are beneficial for better understand-
ing of users' queries. Experimental results 
show that the proposed approach achieves 
higher precision than the word-based re-
trieval models, namely the vector space 
model (VSM) and Okapi model, adopting 
word-level information alone. 
1 