
This paper studies textual inference by inves-
tigating comma structures, which are highly
frequent elements whose major role in the ex-
traction of semantic relations has not been
hitherto recognized. We introduce the prob-
lem of comma resolution, defined as under-
standing the role of commas and extracting the
relations they imply. We show the importance
of the problem using examples from Tex-
tual Entailment tasks, and present A Sentence
Transformation Rule Learner (ASTRL), a ma-
chine learning algorithm that uses a syntac-
tic analysis of the sentence to learn sentence
transformation rules that can then be used to
extract relations. We have manually annotated
a corpus identifying comma structures and re-
lations they entail and experimented with both
gold standard parses and parses created by a
leading statistical parser, obtaining F-scores of
80.2% and 70.4% respectively.
1 