
Rapid and inexpensive techniques for auto-
matic transcription of speech have the po-
tential to dramatically expand the types of
content to which information retrieval tech-
niques can be productively applied, but lim-
itations in accuracy and robustness must be
overcome before that promise can be fully
realized. Combining retrieval results from
systems built on various errorful representa-
tions of the same collection offers some po-
tential to address these challenges. This pa-
per explores that potential by applying Gener-
alized Additive Models to optimize the combi-
nation of ranked retrieval results obtained us-
ing transcripts produced automatically for the
same spoken content by substantially differ-
ent recognition systems. Topic-averaged re-
trieval effectiveness better than any previously
reported for the same collection was obtained,
and even larger gains are apparent when using
an alternative measure emphasizing results on
the most difficult topics.
1 