
The third PASCAL Recognizing Textual En-
tailment Challenge (RTE-3) contained an op-
tional task that extended the main entailment
task by requiring a system to make three-way
entailment decisions (entails, contradicts, nei-
ther) and to justify its response. Contradic-
tion was rare in the RTE-3 test set, occurring
in only about 10% of the cases, and systems
found accurately detecting it difficult. Subse-
quent analysis of the results shows a test set
must contain many more entailment pairs for
the three-way decision task than the traditional
two-way task to have equal confidence in sys-
tem comparisons. Each of six human judges
representing eventual end users rated the qual-
ity of a justification by assigning ?understand-
ability? and ?correctness? scores. Ratings of
the same justification across judges differed
significantly, signaling the need for a better
characterization of the justification task.
1 