
Morphological disambiguation proceeds in 2
stages: (1) an analyzer provides all possible
analyses for a given token and (2) a stochastic
disambiguation module picks the most likely
analysis in context. When the analyzer does
not recognize a given token, we hit the prob-
lem of unknowns. In large scale corpora, un-
knowns appear at a rate of 5 to 10% (depend-
ing on the genre and the maturity of the lexi-
con).
We address the task of computing the distribu-
tion p(t|w) for unknown words for full mor-
phological disambiguation in Hebrew. We in-
troduce a novel algorithm that is language in-
dependent: it exploits a maximum entropy let-
ters model trained over the known words ob-
served in the corpus and the distribution of
the unknown words in known tag contexts,
through iterative approximation. The algo-
rithm achieves 30% error reduction on dis-
ambiguation of unknown words over a com-
petitive baseline (to a level of 70% accurate
full disambiguation of unknown words). We
have also verified that taking advantage of a
strong language-specific model of morpholog-
ical patterns provides the same level of disam-
biguation. The algorithm we have developed
exploits distributional information latent in a
wide-coverage lexicon and large quantities of
unlabeled data.
?This work is supported in part by the Lynn and William
Frankel Center for Computer Science.
1 