
We present a series of experiments on au-
tomatically identifying the sense of im-
plicit discourse relations, i.e. relations
that are not marked with a discourse con-
nective such as ?but? or ?because?. We
work with a corpus of implicit relations
present in newspaper text and report re-
sults on a test set that is representative
of the naturally occurring distribution of
senses. We use several linguistically in-
formed features, including polarity tags,
Levin verb classes, length of verb phrases,
modality, context, and lexical features. In
addition, we revisit past approaches using
lexical pairs from unannotated text as fea-
tures, explain some of their shortcomings
and propose modifications. Our best com-
bination of features outperforms the base-
line from data intensive approaches by 4%
for comparison and 16% for contingency.
1 