
An important and well-studied problem is
the production of semantic lexicons from
a large corpus. In this paper, we present
a system named ASIA (Automatic Set In-
stance Acquirer), which takes in the name
of a semantic class as input (e.g., ?car
makers?) and automatically outputs its in-
stances (e.g., ?ford?, ?nissan?, ?toyota?).
ASIA is based on recent advances in web-
based set expansion - the problem of find-
ing all instances of a set given a small
number of ?seed? instances. This ap-
proach effectively exploits web resources
and can be easily adapted to different
languages. In brief, we use language-
dependent hyponym patterns to find a
noisy set of initial seeds, and then use a
state-of-the-art language-independent set
expansion system to expand these seeds.
The proposed approach matches or outper-
forms prior systems on several English-
language benchmarks. It also shows ex-
cellent performance on three dozen addi-
tional benchmark problems from English,
Chinese and Japanese, thus demonstrating
language-independence.
1 