
Parallel corpora are made by human be-
ings. However, as an MT system is an
aggregation of state-of-the-art NLP tech-
nologies without any intervention of hu-
man beings, it is unavoidable that quite a
few sentence pairs are beyond its analy-
sis and that will therefore not contribute
to the system. Furthermore, they in turn
may act against our objectives to make the
overall performance worse. Possible unfa-
vorable items are n : m mapping objects,
such as paraphrases, non-literal transla-
tions, and multiword expressions. This
paper presents a pre-processing method
which detects such unfavorable items be-
fore supplying them to the word aligner
under the assumption that their frequency
is low, such as below 5 percent. We show
an improvement of Bleu score from 28.0
to 31.4 in English-Spanish and from 16.9
to 22.1 in German-English.
1 