
Short Messaging Service (SMS) is popu-
larly used to provide information access to
people on the move. This has resulted in
the growth of SMS based Question An-
swering (QA) services. However auto-
matically handling SMS questions poses
significant challenges due to the inherent
noise in SMS questions. In this work we
present an automatic FAQ-based question
answering system for SMS users. We han-
dle the noise in a SMS query by formu-
lating the query similarity over FAQ ques-
tions as a combinatorial search problem.
The search space consists of combinations
of all possible dictionary variations of to-
kens in the noisy query. We present an ef-
ficient search algorithm that does not re-
quire any training data or SMS normaliza-
tion and can handle semantic variations in
question formulation. We demonstrate the
effectiveness of our approach on two real-
life datasets.
1 