
The present paper describes a robust ap-
proach for abbreviating terms. First, in
order to incorporate non-local informa-
tion into abbreviation generation tasks, we
present both implicit and explicit solu-
tions: the latent variable model, or alter-
natively, the label encoding approach with
global information. Although the two ap-
proaches compete with one another, we
demonstrate that these approaches are also
complementary. By combining these two
approaches, experiments revealed that the
proposed abbreviation generator achieved
the best results for both the Chinese and
English languages. Moreover, we directly
apply our generator to perform a very dif-
ferent task from tradition, the abbreviation
recognition. Experiments revealed that the
proposed model worked robustly, and out-
performed five out of six state-of-the-art
abbreviation recognizers.
1 