
Wikipedia provides a wealth of knowl-
edge, where the first sentence, infobox
(and relevant sentences), and even the en-
tire document of a wiki article could be
considered as diverse versions of sum-
maries (definitions) of the target topic.
We explore how to generate a series of
summaries with various lengths based on
them. To obtain more reliable associations
between sentences, we introduce wiki con-
cepts according to the internal links in
Wikipedia. In addition, we develop an
extended document concept lattice model
to combine wiki concepts and non-textual
features such as the outline and infobox.
The model can concatenate representative
sentences from non-overlapping salient lo-
cal topics for summary generation. We test
our model based on our annotated wiki ar-
ticles which topics come from TREC-QA
2004-2006 evaluations. The results show
that the model is effective in summariza-
tion and definition QA.
1 