
Correct stress placement is important in
text-to-speech systems, in terms of both
the overall accuracy and the naturalness of
pronunciation. In this paper, we formu-
late stress assignment as a sequence pre-
diction problem. We represent words as
sequences of substrings, and use the sub-
strings as features in a Support Vector Ma-
chine (SVM) ranker, which is trained to
rank possible stress patterns. The rank-
ing approach facilitates inclusion of arbi-
trary features over both the input sequence
and output stress pattern. Our system ad-
vances the current state-of-the-art, predict-
ing primary stress in English, German, and
Dutch with up to 98% word accuracy on
phonemes, and 96% on letters. The sys-
tem is also highly accurate in predicting
secondary stress. Finally, when applied in
tandem with an L2P system, it substan-
tially reduces the word error rate when
predicting both phonemes and stress.
1 