
Recent work on temporal relation iden-
tification has focused on three types of
relations between events: temporal rela-
tions between an event and a time expres-
sion, between a pair of events and between
an event and the document creation time.
These types of relations have mostly been
identified in isolation by event pairwise
comparison. However, this approach ne-
glects logical constraints between tempo-
ral relations of different types that we be-
lieve to be helpful. We therefore propose a
Markov Logic model that jointly identifies
relations of all three relation types simul-
taneously. By evaluating our model on the
TempEval data we show that this approach
leads to about 2% higher accuracy for all
three types of relations ?and to the best
results for the task when compared to those
of other machine learning based systems.
1 