
Sentiment classification refers to the task
of automatically identifying whether a
given piece of text expresses positive or
negative opinion towards a subject at hand.
The proliferation of user-generated web
content such as blogs, discussion forums
and online review sites has made it possi-
ble to perform large-scale mining of pub-
lic opinion. Sentiment modeling is thus
becoming a critical component of market
intelligence and social media technologies
that aim to tap into the collective wis-
dom of crowds. In this paper, we consider
the problem of learning high-quality senti-
ment models with minimal manual super-
vision. We propose a novel approach to
learn from lexical prior knowledge in the
form of domain-independent sentiment-
laden terms, in conjunction with domain-
dependent unlabeled data and a few la-
beled documents. Our model is based on a
constrained non-negative tri-factorization
of the term-document matrix which can
be implemented using simple update rules.
Extensive experimental studies demon-
strate the effectiveness of our approach on
a variety of real-world sentiment predic-
tion tasks.
1 