
A central problem in historical linguistics
is the identification of historically related
cognate words. We present a generative
phylogenetic model for automatically in-
ducing cognate group structure from un-
aligned word lists. Our model represents
the process of transformation and trans-
mission from ancestor word to daughter
word, as well as the alignment between
the words lists of the observed languages.
We also present a novel method for sim-
plifying complex weighted automata cre-
ated during inference to counteract the
otherwise exponential growth of message
sizes. On the task of identifying cognates
in a dataset of Romance words, our model
significantly outperforms a baseline ap-
proach, increasing accuracy by as much as
80%. Finally, we demonstrate that our au-
tomatically induced groups can be used to
successfully reconstruct ancestral words.
1 