
This research explores the idea of inducing
domain-specific semantic class taggers us-
ing only a domain-specific text collection
and seed words. The learning process be-
gins by inducing a classifier that only has
access to contextual features, forcing it to
generalize beyond the seeds. The contex-
tual classifier then labels new instances,
to expand and diversify the training set.
Next, a cross-category bootstrapping pro-
cess simultaneously trains a suite of clas-
sifiers for multiple semantic classes. The
positive instances for one class are used as
negative instances for the others in an it-
erative bootstrapping cycle. We also ex-
plore a one-semantic-class-per-discourse
heuristic, and use the classifiers to dynam-
ically create semantic features. We eval-
uate our approach by inducing six seman-
tic taggers from a collection of veterinary
medicine message board posts.
1 