 
 
Cross-language document summarization is a 
task of producing a summary in one language 
for a document set in a different language. Ex-
isting methods simply use machine translation 
for document translation or summary transla-
tion. However, current machine translation 
services are far from satisfactory, which re-
sults in that the quality of the cross-language 
summary is usually very poor, both in read-
ability and content.  In this paper, we propose 
to consider the translation quality of each sen-
tence in the English-to-Chinese cross-language 
summarization process. First, the translation 
quality of each English sentence in the docu-
ment set is predicted with the SVM regression 
method, and then the quality score of each sen-
tence is incorporated into the summarization 
process. Finally, the English sentences with 
high translation quality and high informative-
ness are selected and translated to form the 
Chinese summary. Experimental results dem-
onstrate the effectiveness and usefulness of the 
proposed approach.  
 
1 