
We report on an experiment to track com-
plex decision points in linguistic meta-
data annotation where the decision behav-
ior of annotators is observed with an eye-
tracking device. As experimental con-
ditions we investigate different forms of
textual context and linguistic complexity
classes relative to syntax and semantics.
Our data renders evidence that annotation
performance depends on the semantic and
syntactic complexity of the decision points
and, more interestingly, indicates that full-
scale context is mostly negligible ? with
the exception of semantic high-complexity
cases. We then induce from this obser-
vational data a cognitively grounded cost
model of linguistic meta-data annotations
and compare it with existing non-cognitive
models. Our data reveals that the cogni-
tively founded model explains annotation
costs (expressed in annotation time) more
adequately than non-cognitive ones.
1 