
Existing word similarity measures are not
robust to data sparseness since they rely
only on the point estimation of words?
context profiles obtained from a limited
amount of data. This paper proposes a
Bayesian method for robust distributional
word similarities. The method uses a dis-
tribution of context profiles obtained by
Bayesian estimation and takes the expec-
tation of a base similarity measure under
that distribution. When the context pro-
files are multinomial distributions, the pri-
ors are Dirichlet, and the base measure is
the Bhattacharyya coefficient, we can de-
rive an analytical form that allows efficient
calculation. For the task of word similar-
ity estimation using a large amount of Web
data in Japanese, we show that the pro-
posed measure gives better accuracies than
other well-known similarity measures.
1 