
In this study, a novel approach to robust di-
alogue act detection for error-prone speech
recognition in a spoken dialogue system is
proposed. First, partial sentence trees are pro-
posed to represent a speech recognition out-
put sentence. Semantic information and the
derivation rules of the partial sentence trees
are extracted and used to model the relation-
ship between the dialogue acts and the deriva-
tion rules. The constructed model is then used
to generate a semantic score for dialogue act
detection given an input speech utterance. The
proposed approach is implemented and evalu-
ated in a Mandarin spoken dialogue system for
tour-guiding service. Combined with scores
derived from the ASR recognition probabil-
ity and the dialogue history, the proposed ap-
proach achieves 84.3% detection accuracy, an
absolute improvement of 34.7% over the base-
line of the semantic slot-based method with
49.6% detection accuracy.
1 