
Cross-document coreference, the task of
grouping all the mentions of each entity in a
document collection, arises in information ex-
traction and automated knowledge base con-
struction. For large collections, it is clearly
impractical to consider all possible groupings
of mentions into distinct entities. To solve
the problem we propose two ideas: (a) a dis-
tributed inference technique that uses paral-
lelism to enable large scale processing, and
(b) a hierarchical model of coreference that
represents uncertainty over multiple granular-
ities of entities to facilitate more effective ap-
proximate inference. To evaluate these ideas,
we constructed a labeled corpus of 1.5 million
disambiguated mentions in Web pages by se-
lecting link anchors referring to Wikipedia en-
tities. We show that the combination of the
hierarchical model with distributed inference
quickly obtains high accuracy (with error re-
duction of 38%) on this large dataset, demon-
strating the scalability of our approach.
1 