
Recent work on bilingual Word Sense Disam-
biguation (WSD) has shown that a resource
deprived language (L1) can benefit from the
annotation work done in a resource rich lan-
guage (L2) via parameter projection. How-
ever, this method assumes the presence of suf-
ficient annotated data in one resource rich lan-
guage which may not always be possible. In-
stead, we focus on the situation where there
are two resource deprived languages, both
having a very small amount of seed annotated
data and a large amount of untagged data. We
then use bilingual bootstrapping, wherein, a
model trained using the seed annotated data
of L1 is used to annotate the untagged data of
L2 and vice versa using parameter projection.
The untagged instances of L1 and L2 which
get annotated with high confidence are then
added to the seed data of the respective lan-
guages and the above process is repeated. Our
experiments show that such a bilingual boot-
strapping algorithm when evaluated on two
different domains with small seed sizes using
Hindi (L1) and Marathi (L2) as the language
pair performs better than monolingual boot-
strapping and significantly reduces annotation
cost.
1 