
We describe a novel application for structured
search in scientific digital libraries. The ACL
Anthology Searchbench is meant to become a
publicly available research tool to query the
content of the ACL Anthology. The applica-
tion provides search in both its bibliographic
metadata and semantically analyzed full tex-
tual content. By combining these two features,
very efficient and focused queries are possi-
ble. At the same time, the application serves
as a showcase for the recent progress in nat-
ural language processing (NLP) research and
language technology. The system currently
indexes the textual content of 7,500 anthol-
ogy papers from 2002?2009 with predicate-
argument-like semantic structures. It also
provides useful search filters based on bib-
liographic metadata. It will be extended to
provide the full anthology content and en-
hanced functionality based on further NLP
techniques.
1 