
We present a method to discover robust and
interpretable sociolinguistic associations from
raw geotagged text data. Using aggregate de-
mographic statistics about the authors? geo-
graphic communities, we solve a multi-output
regression problem between demographics
and lexical frequencies. By imposing a com-
posite `1,? regularizer, we obtain structured
sparsity, driving entire rows of coefficients
to zero. We perform two regression studies.
First, we use term frequencies to predict de-
mographic attributes; our method identifies a
compact set of words that are strongly asso-
ciated with author demographics. Next, we
conjoin demographic attributes into features,
which we use to predict term frequencies. The
composite regularizer identifies a small num-
ber of features, which correspond to com-
munities of authors united by shared demo-
graphic and linguistic properties.
1 