
We describe a sentiment classification method
that is applicable when we do not have any la-
beled data for a target domain but have some
labeled data for multiple other domains, des-
ignated as the source domains. We automat-
ically create a sentiment sensitive thesaurus
using both labeled and unlabeled data from
multiple source domains to find the associa-
tion between words that express similar senti-
ments in different domains. The created the-
saurus is then used to expand feature vectors
to train a binary classifier. Unlike previous
cross-domain sentiment classification meth-
ods, our method can efficiently learn from
multiple source domains. Our method signif-
icantly outperforms numerous baselines and
returns results that are better than or com-
parable to previous cross-domain sentiment
classification methods on a benchmark dataset
containing Amazon user reviews for different
types of products.
1 