
Joint sentiment-topic (JST) model was previ-
ously proposed to detect sentiment and topic
simultaneously from text. The only super-
vision required by JST model learning is
domain-independent polarity word priors. In
this paper, we modify the JST model by in-
corporating word polarity priors through mod-
ifying the topic-word Dirichlet priors. We
study the polarity-bearing topics extracted by
JST and show that by augmenting the original
feature space with polarity-bearing topics, the
in-domain supervised classifiers learned from
augmented feature representation achieve the
state-of-the-art performance of 95% on the
movie review data and an average of 90% on
the multi-domain sentiment dataset. Further-
more, using feature augmentation and selec-
tion according to the information gain criteria
for cross-domain sentiment classification, our
proposed approach performs either better or
comparably compared to previous approaches.
Nevertheless, our approach is much simpler
and does not require difficult parameter tun-
ing.
1 