
While it is generally accepted that many trans-
lation phenomena are correlated with linguis-
tic structures, employing linguistic syntax for
translation has proven a highly non-trivial
task. The key assumption behind many ap-
proaches is that translation is guided by the
source and/or target language parse, employ-
ing rules extracted from the parse tree or
performing tree transformations. These ap-
proaches enforce strict constraints and might
overlook important translation phenomena
that cross linguistic constituents. We propose
a novel flexible modelling approach to intro-
duce linguistic information of varying gran-
ularity from the source side. Our method
induces joint probability synchronous gram-
mars and estimates their parameters, by select-
ing and weighing together linguistically moti-
vated rules according to an objective function
directly targeting generalisation over future
data. We obtain statistically significant im-
provements across 4 different language pairs
with English as source, mounting up to +1.92
BLEU for Chinese as target.
1 