
This paper presents a pilot study of opinion
summarization on conversations. We create
a corpus containing extractive and abstrac-
tive summaries of speaker?s opinion towards
a given topic using 88 telephone conversa-
tions. We adopt two methods to perform ex-
tractive summarization. The first one is a
sentence-ranking method that linearly com-
bines scores measured from different aspects
including topic relevance, subjectivity, and
sentence importance. The second one is a
graph-based method, which incorporates topic
and sentiment information, as well as addi-
tional information about sentence-to-sentence
relations extracted based on dialogue struc-
ture. Our evaluation results show that both
methods significantly outperform the baseline
approach that extracts the longest utterances.
In particular, we find that incorporating di-
alogue structure in the graph-based method
contributes to the improved system perfor-
mance.
1 