 
 
Hindi-Punjabi being closely related language 
pair (Goyal V. and Lehal G.S., 2008) , Hybrid 
Machine Translation approach has been used 
for developing Hindi to Punjabi Machine 
Translation System. Non-availability of lexical 
resources, spelling variations in the source 
language text, source text ambiguous words, 
named entity recognition and collocations are 
the major challenges faced while developing 
this syetm. The key activities involved during 
translation process are preprocessing, 
translation engine and post processing. Lookup 
algorithms, pattern matching algorithms etc 
formed the basis for solving these issues. The 
system accuracy has been evaluated using 
intelligibility test, accuracy test and BLEU 
score. The hybrid syatem is found to perform 
better than the constituent systems. 
 
Keywords: Machine Translation, Computational 
Linguistics, Natural Language Processing, Hindi, 
Punjabi. Translate Hindi to Punjabi, Closely 
related languages. 
 
1 