
Marking up search queries with linguistic an-
notations such as part-of-speech tags, cap-
italization, and segmentation, is an impor-
tant part of query processing and understand-
ing in information retrieval systems. Due
to their brevity and idiosyncratic structure,
search queries pose a challenge to existing
NLP tools. To address this challenge, we
propose a probabilistic approach for perform-
ing joint query annotation. First, we derive
a robust set of unsupervised independent an-
notations, using queries and pseudo-relevance
feedback. Then, we stack additional classi-
fiers on the independent annotations, and ex-
ploit the dependencies between them to fur-
ther improve the accuracy, even with a very
limited amount of available training data. We
evaluate our method using a range of queries
extracted from a web search log. Experimen-
tal results verify the effectiveness of our ap-
proach for both short keyword queries, and
verbose natural language queries.
1 