 
Sentiment analysis on Twitter data has attract-
ed much attention recently. In this paper, we 
focus on target-dependent Twitter sentiment 
classification; namely, given a query, we clas-
sify the sentiments of the tweets as positive, 
negative or neutral according to whether they 
contain positive, negative or neutral senti-
ments about that query. Here the query serves 
as the target of the sentiments. The state-of-
the-art approaches for solving this problem 
always adopt the target-independent strategy, 
which may assign irrelevant sentiments to the 
given target. Moreover, the state-of-the-art 
approaches only take the tweet to be classified 
into consideration when classifying the senti-
ment; they ignore its context (i.e., related 
tweets). However, because tweets are usually 
short and more ambiguous, sometimes it is not 
enough to consider only the current tweet for 
sentiment classification. In this paper, we pro-
pose to improve target-dependent Twitter sen-
timent classification by 1) incorporating 
target-dependent features; and 2) taking relat-
ed tweets into consideration. According to the 
experimental results, our approach greatly im-
proves the performance of target-dependent 
sentiment classification. 
1 