
It is well known that parsing accuracy suf-
fers when a model is applied to out-of-domain
data. It is also known that the most benefi-
cial data to parse a given domain is data that
matches the domain (Sekine, 1997; Gildea,
2001). Hence, an important task is to select
appropriate domains. However, most previ-
ous work on domain adaptation relied on the
implicit assumption that domains are some-
how given. As more and more data becomes
available, automatic ways to select data that is
beneficial for a new (unknown) target domain
are becoming attractive. This paper evaluates
various ways to automatically acquire related
training data for a given test set. The results
show that an unsupervised technique based on
topic models is effective ? it outperforms ran-
dom data selection on both languages exam-
ined, English and Dutch. Moreover, the tech-
nique works better than manually assigned la-
bels gathered from meta-data that is available
for English.
1 