
This paper explores the use of bilingual par-
allel corpora as a source of lexical knowl-
edge for cross-lingual textual entailment. We
claim that, in spite of the inherent difficul-
ties of the task, phrase tables extracted from
parallel data allow to capture both lexical re-
lations between single words, and contextual
information useful for inference. We experi-
ment with a phrasal matching method in or-
der to: i) build a system portable across lan-
guages, and ii) evaluate the contribution of
lexical knowledge in isolation, without inter-
action with other inference mechanisms. Re-
sults achieved on an English-Spanish corpus
obtained from the RTE3 dataset support our
claim, with an overall accuracy above average
scores reported by RTE participants on mono-
lingual data. Finally, we show that using par-
allel corpora to extract paraphrase tables re-
veals their potential also in the monolingual
setting, improving the results achieved with
other sources of lexical knowledge.
1 