
We learn a joint model of sentence extraction
and compression for multi-document summa-
rization. Our model scores candidate sum-
maries according to a combined linear model
whose features factor over (1) the n-gram
types in the summary and (2) the compres-
sions used. We train the model using a margin-
based objective whose loss captures end sum-
mary quality. Because of the exponentially
large set of candidate summaries, we use a
cutting-plane algorithm to incrementally de-
tect and add active constraints efficiently. In-
ference in our model can be cast as an ILP
and thereby solved in reasonable time; we also
present a fast approximation scheme which
achieves similar performance. Our jointly
extracted and compressed summaries outper-
form both unlearned baselines and our learned
extraction-only system on both ROUGE and
Pyramid, without a drop in judged linguis-
tic quality. We achieve the highest published
ROUGE results to date on the TAC 2008 data
set.
1 