
We propose methods for estimating the prob-
ability that an entity from an entity database
is associated with a web search query. Asso-
ciation is modeled using a query entity click
graph, blending general query click logs with
vertical query click logs. Smoothing tech-
niques are proposed to address the inherent
data sparsity in such graphs, including inter-
polation using a query synonymy model. A
large-scale empirical analysis of the smooth-
ing techniques, over a 2-year click graph
collected from a commercial search engine,
shows significant reductions in modeling er-
ror. The association models are then applied
to the task of recommending products to web
queries, by annotating queries with products
from a large catalog and then mining query-
product associations through web search ses-
sion analysis. Experimental analysis shows
that our smoothing techniques improve cover-
age while keeping precision stable, and over-
all, that our top-performing model affects 9%
of general web queries with 94% precision.
1 