
As the number of learners of English is con-
stantly growing, automatic error correction of
ESL learners? writing is an increasingly ac-
tive area of research. However, most research
has mainly focused on errors concerning arti-
cles and prepositions even though tense/aspect
errors are also important. One of the main
reasons why tense/aspect error correction is
difficult is that the choice of tense/aspect is
highly dependent on global context. Previous
research on grammatical error correction typ-
ically uses pointwise prediction that performs
classification on each word independently, and
thus fails to capture the information of neigh-
boring labels. In order to take global infor-
mation into account, we regard the task as se-
quence labeling: each verb phrase in a doc-
ument is labeled with tense/aspect depending
on surrounding labels. Our experiments show
that the global context makes a moderate con-
tribution to tense/aspect error correction.
1 