
Hiero translation models have two lim-
itations compared to phrase-based mod-
els: 1) Limited hypothesis space; 2) No
lexicalized reordering model. We pro-
pose an extension of Hiero called Phrasal-
Hiero to address Hiero?s second problem.
Phrasal-Hiero still has the same hypoth-
esis space as the original Hiero but in-
corporates a phrase-based distance cost
feature and lexicalized reodering features
into the chart decoder. The work consists
of two parts: 1) for each Hiero transla-
tion derivation, find its corresponding dis-
continuous phrase-based path. 2) Extend
the chart decoder to incorporate features
from the phrase-based path. We achieve
significant improvement over both Hiero
and phrase-based baselines for Arabic-
English, Chinese-English and German-
English translation.
1 