
This paper introduces a graph-based semi-
supervised joint model of Chinese word
segmentation and part-of-speech tagging.
The proposed approach is based on a
graph-based label propagation technique.
One constructs a nearest-neighbor simi-
larity graph over all trigrams of labeled
and unlabeled data for propagating syn-
tactic information, i.e., label distribution-
s. The derived label distributions are re-
garded as virtual evidences to regular-
ize the learning of linear conditional ran-
dom fields (CRFs) on unlabeled data. An
inductive character-based joint model is
obtained eventually. Empirical results on
Chinese tree bank (CTB-7) and Microsoft
Research corpora (MSR) reveal that the
proposed model can yield better result-
s than the supervised baselines and other
competitive semi-supervised CRFs in this
task.
1 