
Recent research has shown progress in
achieving high-quality, very fine-grained
type classification in hierarchical tax-
onomies. Within such a multi-level type
hierarchy with several hundreds of types at
different levels, many entities naturally be-
long to multiple types. In order to achieve
high-precision in type classification, cur-
rent approaches are either limited to certain
domains or require time consuming multi-
stage computations. As a consequence, ex-
isting systems are incapable of performing
ad-hoc type classification on arbitrary input
texts. In this demo, we present a novel Web-
based tool that is able to perform domain
independent entity type classification under
real time conditions. Thanks to its efficient
implementation and compacted feature rep-
resentation, the system is able to process
text inputs on-the-fly while still achieving
equally high precision as leading state-of-
the-art implementations. Our system offers
an online interface where natural-language
text can be inserted, which returns seman-
tic type labels for entity mentions. Further
more, the user interface allows users to ex-
plore the assigned types by visualizing and
navigating along the type-hierarchy.
1 