 
School of thought analysis is an important yet 
not-well-elaborated scientific knowledge dis-
covery task. This paper makes the first attempt 
at this problem. We focus on one aspect of the 
problem: do characteristic school-of-thought 
words exist and whether they are characteriza-
ble? To answer these questions, we propose a 
probabilistic generative School-Of-Thought 
(SOT) model to simulate the scientific author-
ing process based on several assumptions. SOT 
defines a school of thought as a distribution of 
topics and assumes that authors determine the 
school of thought for each sentence before 
choosing words to deliver scientific ideas. SOT 
distinguishes between two types of school-of-
thought words for either the general back-
ground of a school of thought or the original 
ideas each paper contributes to its school of 
thought. Narrative and quantitative experi-
ments show positive and promising results to 
the questions raised above. 
1 