
Social Media contain a multitude of user
opinions which can be used to predict real-
world phenomena in many domains in-
cluding politics, finance and health. Most
existing methods treat these problems as
linear regression, learning to relate word
frequencies and other simple features to
a known response variable (e.g., voting
intention polls or financial indicators).
These techniques require very careful fil-
tering of the input texts, as most Social
Media posts are irrelevant to the task. In
this paper, we present a novel approach
which performs high quality filtering au-
tomatically, through modelling not just
words but also users, framed as a bilin-
ear model with a sparse regulariser. We
also consider the problem of modelling
groups of related output variables, us-
ing a structured multi-task regularisation
method. Our experiments on voting inten-
tion prediction demonstrate strong perfor-
mance over large-scale input from Twitter
on two distinct case studies, outperform-
ing competitive baselines.
1 