
Timeline summarization aims at generat-
ing concise summaries and giving read-
ers a faster and better access to under-
stand the evolution of news. It is a new
challenge which combines salience rank-
ing problem with novelty detection. Pre-
vious researches in this field seldom ex-
plore the evolutionary pattern of topics
such as birth, splitting, merging, develop-
ing and death. In this paper, we develop
a novel model called Evolutionary Hier-
archical Dirichlet Process(EHDP) to cap-
ture the topic evolution pattern in time-
line summarization. In EHDP, time vary-
ing information is formulated as a series
of HDPs by considering time-dependent
information. Experiments on 6 different
datasets which contain 3156 documents
demonstrates the good performance of our
system with regard to ROUGE scores.
1 