
We present a city navigation and tourist
information mobile dialogue app with in-
tegrated question-answering (QA) and ge-
ographic information system (GIS) mod-
ules that helps pedestrian users to nav-
igate in and learn about urban environ-
ments. In contrast to existing mobile apps
which treat these problems independently,
our Android app addresses the prob-
lem of navigation and touristic question-
answering in an integrated fashion using
a shared dialogue context. We evaluated
our system in comparison with Samsung
S-Voice (which interfaces to Google nav-
igation and Google search) with 17 users
and found that users judged our system to
be significantly more interesting to inter-
act with and learn from. They also rated
our system above Google search (with the
Samsung S-Voice interface) for tourist in-
formation tasks.
1 