
We present a way to extract links from
messages published on microblogging
platforms and we classify them according
to the language and possible relevance of
their target in order to build a text cor-
pus. Three platforms are taken into con-
sideration: FriendFeed, identi.ca and Red-
dit, as they account for a relative diver-
sity of user profiles and more importantly
user languages. In order to explore them,
we introduce a traversal algorithm based
on user pages. As we target lesser-known
languages, we try to focus on non-English
posts by filtering out English text. Us-
ing mature open-source software from the
NLP research field, a spell checker (as-
pell) and a language identification sys-
tem (langid.py), our case study and
our benchmarks give an insight into the
linguistic structure of the considered ser-
vices.
1 