
This paper studies the problem of non-
monotonic sentence alignment, motivated
by the observation that coupled sentences
in real bitexts do not necessarily occur
monotonically, and proposes a semisuper-
vised learning approach based on two as-
sumptions: (1) sentences with high affinity
in one language tend to have their counter-
parts with similar relatedness in the other;
and (2) initial alignment is readily avail-
able with existing alignment techniques.
They are incorporated as two constraints
into a semisupervised learning framework
for optimization to produce a globally op-
timal solution. The evaluation with real-
world legal data from a comprehensive
legislation corpus shows that while exist-
ing alignment algorithms suffer severely
from non-monotonicity, this approach can
work effectively on both monotonic and
non-monotonic data.
1 