
In this paper, we propose a new Bayesian
inference method to train statistical ma-
chine translation systems using only non-
parallel corpora. Following a probabilis-
tic decipherment approach, we first intro-
duce a new framework for decipherment
training that is flexible enough to incorpo-
rate any number/type of features (besides
simple bag-of-words) as side-information
used for estimating translation models. In
order to perform fast, efficient Bayesian
inference in this framework, we then de-
rive a hash sampling strategy that is in-
spired by the work of Ahmed et al (2012).
The new translation hash sampler enables
us to scale elegantly to complex mod-
els (for the first time) and large vocab-
ulary/corpora sizes. We show empirical
results on the OPUS data?our method
yields the best BLEU scores compared to
existing approaches, while achieving sig-
nificant computational speedups (several
orders faster). We also report for the
first time?BLEU score results for a large-
scale MT task using only non-parallel data
(EMEA corpus).
1 