  
MLR, an extended LR parser, is introduced, and its 
application to natural language parsing is discussed. 
An LR parser is a ~;hift-reduce parser which is 
doterministically guided by a parsing table. A parsing 
table can be obtained automatically from a context- 
free phrase structure grammar. LR parsers cannot 
manage antl)iguous grammars such as natural 
language grammars, because their I)arsing tables 
would have multiply-defined entries, which precludes 
deterministic parsing. MLR, however, can handle 
mulliply-defined entries, using a dynamic 
programnting method. When an input sentence is 
ambiguous, the MI.R parser produces all possible 
parse trees witftoul parsing any part of the input 
sentenc:e more than once in the same way, despite the 
fact that the parser does not maintain a chart as in 
chart par~ing. Our method also prnvkles an elegant 
solution to the problem of multi-part-of-speech words 
such as "that". The MLR parser and its parsing table 
generator have been implemented at Carnegie-Mellon 
University. 
1 