
Unsupervised parsing is a difficult task that
infants readily perform. Progress has been
made on this task using text-based models, but
few computational approaches have considered
how infants might benefit from acoustic cues.
This paper explores the hypothesis that word
duration can help with learning syntax. We de-
scribe how duration information can be incor-
porated into an unsupervised Bayesian depen-
dency parser whose only other source of infor-
mation is the words themselves (without punc-
tuation or parts of speech). Our results, evalu-
ated on both adult-directed and child-directed
utterances, show that using word duration can
improve parse quality relative to words-only
baselines. These results support the idea that
acoustic cues provide useful evidence about
syntactic structure for language-learning in-
fants, and motivate the use of word duration
cues in NLP tasks with speech.
1 