
We introduce a new approach to semantics
which combines the benefits of distributional
and formal logical semantics. Distributional
models have been successful in modelling the
meanings of content words, but logical se-
mantics is necessary to adequately represent
many function words. We follow formal se-
mantics in mapping language to logical rep-
resentations, but differ in that the relational
constants used are induced by offline distri-
butional clustering at the level of predicate-
argument structure. Our clustering algorithm
is highly scalable, allowing us to run on cor-
pora the size of Gigaword. Different senses of
a word are disambiguated based on their in-
duced types. We outperform a variety of ex-
isting approaches on a wide-coverage question
answering task, and demonstrate the ability to
make complex multi-sentence inferences in-
volving quantifiers on the FraCaS suite.
1 