 
 
This paper describes our infrequent sense 
identification system participating in the 
SemEval-2010 task 15 on Infrequent Sense 
Identification for Mandarin Text to Speech 
Systems. The core system is a supervised 
system based on the ensembles of Na?ve 
Bayesian classifiers. In order to solve the 
problem of unbalanced sense distribution, we 
intentionally extract only instances of 
infrequent sense with the same N-gram pattern 
as the complemental training data from an 
untagged Chinese corpus ? People?s Daily of 
the year 2001. At the same time, we adjusted 
the prior probability to adapt to the 
distribution of the test data and tuned the 
smoothness coefficient to take the data 
sparseness into account. Official result shows 
that, our system ranked the first with the best 
Macro Accuracy 0.952. We briefly describe 
this system, its configuration options and the 
features used for this task and present some 
discussion of the results. 
1 