
This report describes the UNITN system, a
Part-Of-Speech Context Counter, that par-
ticipated at Semeval 2010 Task 8: Multi-
Way Classification of Semantic Relations
Between Pairs of Nominals. Given a text
annotated with Part-of-Speech, the system
outputs a vector representation of a sen-
tence containing 20 features in total. There
are three steps in the system?s pipeline:
first the system produces an estimation of
the entities? position in the relation, then
an estimation of the semantic relation type
by means of decision trees and finally it
gives a predicition of semantic relation
plus entities? position. The system ob-
tained good results in the estimation of en-
tities? position (F1=98.3%) but a critically
poor performance in relation classification
(F1=26.6%), indicating that lexical and se-
mantic information is essential in relation
extraction. The system can be used as an
integration for other systems or for pur-
poses different from relation extraction.
1 