
Wikipedia is a Web based, freely available
multilingual encyclopedia, constructed in a
collaborative effort by thousands of contribu-
tors. Wikipedia articles on the same topic in
different languages are connected via interlin-
gual (or translational) links. These links serve
as an excellent resource for obtaining lexical
translations, or building multilingual dictio-
naries and semantic networks. As these links
are manually built, many links are missing
or simply wrong. This paper describes a su-
pervised learning method for generating new
links and detecting existing incorrect links.
Since there is no dataset available to evaluate
the resulting interlingual links, we create our
own gold standard by sampling translational
links from four language pairs using distance
heuristics. We manually annotate the sampled
translation links and used them to evaluate the
output of our method for automatic link detec-
tion and correction.
1 