
In recent years, sentiment analysis in social
media has attracted a lot of research interest
and has been used for a number of applica-
tions. Unfortunately, research has been hin-
dered by the lack of suitable datasets, com-
plicating the comparison between approaches.
To address this issue, we have proposed
SemEval-2013 Task 2: Sentiment Analysis in
Twitter, which included two subtasks: A, an
expression-level subtask, and B, a message-
level subtask. We used crowdsourcing on
Amazon Mechanical Turk to label a large
Twitter training dataset alng with additional
test sets of Twitter and SMS messages for both
subtasks. All datasets used in the evaluation
are released to the research community. The
task attracted significant interest and a total
of 149 submissions from 44 teams. The best-
performing team achieved an F1 of 88.9% and
69% for subtasks A and B, respectively.
1 