
In this paper we describe our system used to
participate in the Student-Response-Analysis
task-7 at SemEval 2013. This system is based
on text overlap through the soft cardinality and
a new mechanism for weight propagation. Al-
though there are several official performance
measures, taking into account the overall ac-
curacy throughout the two availabe data sets
(Beetle and SciEntsBank), our system ranked
first in the 2 way classification task and sec-
ond in the others. Furthermore, our sys-
tem performs particularly well with ?unseen-
domains? instances, which was the more chal-
lenging test set. This paper also describes an-
other system that integrates this method with
the lexical-overlap baseline provided by the
task organizers obtaining better results than
the best official results. We concluded that the
soft cardinality method is a very competitive
baseline for the automatic evaluation of stu-
dent responses.
1 