 
Two styles of performing inference in 
semantic networks are presented and com- 
pared. Path-based inference allows an arc 
or a path of arcs between two given nodes 
to be inferred from the existence of an- 
other specified path between the same two 
nodes. Path-based inference rules may be 
written using a binary relational calculus 
notation. Node-based inference allows a 
structure of nodes to be inferred from the 
existence of an instance of a pattern of 
node structures. Node-based inference 
rules can be constructed in a semantic 
network using a variant of a predicate 
calculus notation. Path-based inference 
is more efficient, while node-based infer- 
ence is more general. A method is de- 
scribed of combining the two styles in a 
single system in order to take advantage 
of the strengths of each. Applications of 
path-based inference rules to the repre- 
sentation of the extensional equivalence 
of intensional concepts, and to the expli- 
cation of inheritance in hierarchies are 
sketched. 
I. 