 
In several recent years, natural 
language processing (NLP) has brought 
some very interesting and promising 
outcomes. In the field of information 
retrieval (IR), however, these significant 
advances have not been applied in an 
optimal way yet. 
Author argues that traditional IR 
methods, i.e. methods based on dealing 
with individual terms without considering 
their relations, can be overcome using 
NLP procedures. The reason for this 
expectation is the fact that NLP methods 
are able to detect the relations among 
terms in sentences and that the 
information obtained can be stored and 
used for searching. Features of word 
senses and the significance of word 
contexts are analysed and possibility of 
searching based on word senses instead of 
mere words is examined. 
The core part of the paper focuses on 
analysing Czech sentences and extracting 
the  context relations among words from 
them. In order to make use of 
lemmatisation and morphological and 
syntactic tagging of Czech texts, author 
proposes a method for construction of 
dependency word microcontexts fully 
automatically extracted from texts, and 
several ways how to exploit the 
microcontexts for the sake of increasing 
retrieval performance. 
1 