
We propose a multilingual approach to
characterizing word order at the clause
level as a means to realize informa-
tion structure. We illustrate the prob-
lem with three languages which differ
in the degree of word order freedom
they exhibit: Czech, a free word or-
der language in which word order vari-
ation is pragmatically determined; En-
glish, a fixed word order language in
which word order is primarily gram-
matically determined; and German, a
language which is between Czech and
English on the scale of word order free-
dom. Our work is theoretically rooted
in previous work on information struc-
turing and word order in the Prague
School framework as well as on the
systemic-functional notion of Theme.
The approach we present has been im-
plemented in KPML.
1 