
Computational learning of natural lan-
guage is often attempted without using
the knowledge available from other re-
search areas such as psychology and
linguistics. This can lead to systems
that solve problems that are neither
theoretically or practically useful. In
this paper we present a system CLL
which aims to learn natural language
syntax in a way that is both compu-
tationally effective and psychologically
plausible. This theoretically plausible
system can also perform the practically
useful task of unsupervised learning of
syntax. CLL has then been applied to
a corpus of declarative sentences from
the Penn Treebank (Marcus et al, 1993;
Marcus et al, 1994) on which it has
been shown to perform comparatively
well with respect to much less psycho-
logically plausible systems, which are
significantly more supervised and are
applied to somewhat simpler problems.
1 