
This paper proposes an empirical ap-
proach to the development of a com-
putational model for assessing texts ac-
cording to cohesiveness. We argue that
the NLG technologies for the gener-
ation of structural paraphrases can be
used to efficiently create what we call a
cohesion-variant parallel corpus, which
would serve as a good resource for em-
pirical acquisition of cohesiveness cri-
teria. We also present our pilot case
study, in which we took a particular
type of paraphrasing that separates a
relative clause from a sentence. We
have so far created a cohesion-variant
parallel corpus containing 499 cohesive
instances and 841 incohesive instances.
Based on this corpus, we conducted
a preliminary experiment on cohesion
evaluation, obtaining encouraging re-
sults.
1 