
We present an algorithm that takes an
unannotated corpus as its input, and re-
turns a ranked list of probable morpho-
logically related pairs as its output. The
algorithm tries to discover morphologi-
cally related pairs by looking for pairs
that are both orthographically and seman-
tically similar, where orthographic simi-
larity is measured in terms of minimum
edit distance, and semantic similarity is
measured in terms of mutual information.
The procedure does not rely on a mor-
pheme concatenation model, nor on dis-
tributional properties of word substrings
(such as affix frequency). Experiments
with German and English input give en-
couraging results, both in terms of pre-
cision (proportion of good pairs found at
various cutoff points of the ranked list),
and in terms of a qualitative analysis of
the types of morphological patterns dis-
covered by the algorithm.
1 