
This paper proposes an automatic in-
terpretation system that integrates free-
style sentence translation and parallel text
based translation. Free-style sentence
translation accepts natural language sen-
tences and translates them by machine
translation. Parallel text based translation
provides a proper translation for a sen-
tence in the parallel text by referring to a
corresponding translation of the sentence
and supplements free-style sentence trans-
lation. We developed a prototype of an au-
tomatic interpretation system for Japanese
overseas travelers with parallel text based
translation using 9206 parallel bilingual
sentences prepared in task-oriented man-
ner. Evaluation results show that the par-
allel text based translation covers 72% of
typical utterances for overseas travel and
the user can easily find an appropriate sen-
tence from a natural utterance for 64% of
typical traveler?s tasks. This indicates that
the user can benefit from reliable transla-
tion based on parallel text for fundamental
utterances necessary for overseas travel.
1 