
An important component of any generation
system is the mapping dictionary, a lexicon
of elementary semantic expressions and cor-
responding natural language realizations.
Typically, labor-intensive knowledge-based
methods are used to construct the dictio-
nary. We instead propose to acquire it
automatically via a novel multiple-pass al-
gorithm employing multiple-sequence align-
ment, a technique commonly used in bioin-
formatics. Crucially, our method lever-
ages latent information contained in multi-
parallel corpora ? datasets that supply
several verbalizations of the corresponding
semantics rather than just one.
We used our techniques to generate natural
language versions of computer-generated
mathematical proofs, with good results on
both a per-component and overall-output
basis. For example, in evaluations involv-
ing a dozen human judges, our system pro-
duced output whose readability and faith-
fulness to the semantic input rivaled that of
a traditional generation system.
1 