
In this paper, we evaluate the results of
the Antwerp University word sense dis-
ambiguation system in the English all
words task of SENSEVAL-2. In this ap-
proach, specialized memory-based word-
experts were trained per word-POS com-
bination. Through optimization by cross-
validation of the individual component
classifiers and the voting scheme for com-
bining them, the best possible word-expert
was determined. In the competition, this
word-expert architecture resulted in accu-
racies of 63.6% (fine-grained) and 64.5%
(coarse-grained) on the SENSEVAL-2 test
data.
In order to better understand these re-
sults, we investigated whether classifiers
trained on different information sources
performed differently on the different
part-of-speech categories. Furthermore,
the results were evaluated in terms of the
available number of training items, the
number of senses, and the sense distribu-
tions in the data set. We conclude that
there is no information source which is
optimal over all word-experts. Selecting
the optimal classifier/voter for each sin-
gle word-expert, however, leads to major
accuracy improvements. We furthermore
show that accuracies do not so much de-
pend on the available number of training
items, but largely on polysemy and sense
distributions.
1 