
Words differ in the subcategorisation frames in
which they occur, and there is a strong cor-
relation between the semantic arguments of a
given word and its subcategorisation frame, so
that all its arguments should be included in its
subcategorisation frame. One problem is posed
by the ambiguity between locative prepositional
phrases as arguments of a verb or adjuncts.
As the semantics for the verb is the same in
both cases, it is difficult to differentiate them,
and to learn the appropriate subcategorisation
frame. We propose an approach that uses se-
mantically motivated preposition selection and
frequency information to determine if a locative
PP is an argument or an adjunct. In order to
test this approach, we perform an experiment
using a computational learning system that re-
ceives as input utterances annotated with log-
ical forms. The results obtained indicate that
the learner successfully distinguishes between
arguments (obligatory and optional) and ad-
juncts.
1 