
Named entity (NE) recognition is an impor-
tant task for many natural language applica-
tions, such as Internet search engines,
document indexing, information extraction
and machine translation. Moreover, in ori-
ental languages (such as Chinese, Japanese
and Korean), NE recognition is even more
important because it significantly affects the
performance of word segmentation, the most
fundamental task for understanding the texts
in oriental languages. In this paper, a prob-
abilistic verification model is designed for
verifying the correctness of a named entity
candidate. This model assesses the confi-
dence level of a candidate not only accord-
ing to the candidate?s structure but also ac-
cording to its context. In our design, the
clues for confidence measurement are col-
lected from both positive and negative ex-
amples in the training data in a statistical
manner. Experimental results show that the
proposed method significantly improves the
F-measure of Chinese personal name recog-
nition from 86.5% to 94.4%.
