
We present a demonstration of a proto-
type system aimed at providing support
with procedural tasks for astronauts on
board the International Space Station.
Current functionality includes navigation
within the procedure, previewing steps,
requesting a list of images or a particular
image, recording voice notes and spoken
alarms, setting parameters such as audio
volume. Dialogue capabilities include
handling spoken corrections for an entire
dialogue move, reestablishing context in
response to a user request, responding to
user barge-in, and help on demand. The
current system has been partially reim-
plemented for better efficiency and in re-
sponse to feedback from astronauts and
astronaut training personnel. Added fea-
tures include visual and spoken step pre-
viewing, and spoken correction of
dialogue moves. The intention is to intro-
duce the system into astronaut training as
a prelude to flight on board the Interna-
tional Space Station.
1 