
We describe a set of paraphrase patterns
for questions which we derived from a
corpus of questions, and report the result
of using them in the automatic recogni-
tion of question paraphrases. The aim
of our paraphrase patterns is to factor out
different syntactic variations of interroga-
tive words, since the interrogative part of
a question adds a syntactic superstructure
on the sentence part (i.e., the rest of the
question), thereby making it difficult for
an automatic system to analyze the ques-
tion. The patterns we derived are rules
which map surface syntactic structures to
semantic case frames, which serve as the
canonical representation of questions. We
also describe the process in which we
acquired question paraphrases, which we
used as the test data. The results obtained
by using the patterns in paraphrase recog-
nition were quite promising.
1 