
Anaphora resolution is one of the most
important research topics in Natural Lan-
guage Processing. In English, overt pro-
nouns such as she and definite noun
phrases such as the company are anaphors
that refer to preceding entities (an-
tecedents). In Japanese, anaphors are of-
ten omitted, and these omissions are called
zero pronouns. There are two major ap-
proaches to zero pronoun resolution: the
heuristic approach and the machine learn-
ing approach. Since we have to take var-
ious factors into consideration, it is diffi-
cult to find a good combination of heuris-
tic rules. Therefore, the machine learn-
ing approach is attractive, but it requires
a large amount of training data. In this
paper, we propose a method that com-
bines ranking rules and machine learning.
The ranking rules are simple and effective,
while machine learning can take more fac-
tors into account. From the results of our
experiments, this combination gives better
performance than either of the two previ-
ous approaches.
1 