 
Chat system has gained popularity as a 
tool for real-time conversation. How-
ever, standard chat systems have prob-
lems due to lack of timing information. 
To tackle this problem, we have built a 
system which has the following func-
tions: 1) function of making typing state 
visible; 2) floor holding function at the 
start of typing. The evaluation results 
show that the sys-tem with each new 
function significantly increases the 
number of turns, which indicates the ef-
fectiveness of the new functions for 
smooth communication. The survey re-
sults showed that the system with the 
function of making typing state visible 
significantly different from that without 
them concerning 1) easiness of adjust-
ing the timing of utterances and 
smoothness of conversations, and 2) 
easiness of using the system. 
1 