 
In this paper we present an approach to 
term classification based on verb com-
plementation patterns. The complementa-
tion patterns have been automatically 
learnt by combining information found in 
a corpus and an ontology, both belonging 
to the biomedical domain. The learning 
process is unsupervised and has been im-
plemented as an iterative reasoning pro-
cedure based on a partial order relation 
induced by the domain-specific ontology. 
First, term recognition was performed by 
both looking up the dictionary of terms 
listed in the ontology and applying the 
C/NC-value method. Subsequently, do-
main-specific verbs were automatically 
identified in the corpus. Finally, the 
classes of terms typically selected as ar-
guments for the considered verbs were in-
duced from the corpus and the ontology. 
This information was used to classify 
newly recognised terms. The precision of 
the classification method reached 64%. 
1 