 
In our information era, keywords are very 
useful to information retrieval, text clus-
tering and so on.  News is always a do-
main attracting a large amount of 
attention.  However, the majority of news 
articles come without keywords, and in-
dexing them manually costs highly.  Aim-
ing at news articles? characteristics and 
the resources available, this paper intro-
duces a simple procedure to index key-
words based on the scoring system.  In the 
process of indexing, we make use of some 
relatively mature linguistic techniques and 
tools to filter those meaningless candidate 
items.  Furthermore, according to the hi-
erarchical relations of content words, 
keywords are not restricted to extracting 
from text. These methods have improved 
our system a lot.  At last experimental re-
sults are given and analyzed, showing that 
the quality of extracted keywords are sat-
isfying. 
1 