
This paper addresses a very specific
problem that happens to be  common in
health science research. We present a
machine learning based method for
identifying patients diagnosed with
congestive heart failure and other related
conditions by automatically classifying
clinical notes. This method relies on a
Perceptron neural network classifier
trained on comparable amounts of
positive and negative samples of clinical
notes previously categorized by human
experts. The documents are represented as
feature vectors where features are a mix
of single words and concept mappings to
MeSH and HICDA ontologies. The
method is designed and implemented to
support a particular epidemiological study
but has broader implications for clinical
research. In this paper, we describe the
method and present experimental
classification results based on
classification accuracy and positive
predictive value.
1 