
Learning of new words is assisted by contex-
tual information. This context can come in
several forms, including observations in non-
linguistic semantic domains, as well as the lin-
guistic context in which the new word was pre-
sented. We outline a general architecture for
word learning, in which structural alignment
coordinates this contextual information in or-
der to restrict the possible interpretations of un-
known words. We identify spatial relations as
an applicable semantic domain, and describe a
system-in-progress for implementing the gen-
eral architecture using video sequences as our
non-linguistic input. For example, when the
complete system is presented with ?The bird
dove to the rock,? with a video sequence of a
bird flying from a tree to a rock, and with the
meanings for all the words except the preposi-
tion ?to,? the system will register the unknown
?to? with the corresponding aspect of the bird?s
trajectory.
1 