
Text mining tools are designed to assist users
with the important step of hypothesis genera-
tion. In this research we apply an open discov-
ery process to the problem of identifying novel
disease or problem contexts in which a sub-
stance may have therapeutic potential. We il-
lustrate this discovery process by executing our
open discovery algorithm with turmeric (Cur-
cumin Longa) as the substance being investi-
gated. The top ranking entry suggested by the
algorithm is retinal diseases. Further analysis
of the literature yields evidence supporting the
suggested connection between curcumin and
retinal diseases. In particular, curcumin influ-
ences the activation of genes such as COX-2,
TNF-alpha, JNK, ERK and NF-kappaB. These
genes are in turn involved in retinal diseases
such as diabetic retinopathies, ocular inflam-
mation and glaucoma. Moreover, the evidence
suggests that curcumin may have a beneficial
and therapeutic role in the context of these dis-
eases.
1 