 
Mental Space Theory (Fauconnier, 1985) en-
compasses a wide variety of complex linguis-
tics phenomena that are largely ignored in to-
day?s natural language processing systems. 
These phenomena include conditionals (e.g. If 
sentences), embedded discourse, and other 
natural language utterances whose interpreta-
tion depends on cognitive partitioning of con-
textual knowledge. A unification-based 
formalism, Embodied Construction Grammar 
(ECG) (Chang et al, 2002a) took initial steps 
to include space as a primitive type, but most 
of the details are yet to be worked out. The 
goal of this paper is to present a scalable com-
putational account of mental spaces based on 
the Neural Theory of Language (NTL) simu-
lation-based understanding framework (Nara-
yanan, 1999; Chang et al, 2002b). We 
introduce a formalization of mental spaces 
based on ECG, and describe how this formal-
ization fits into the NTL framework. We will 
also use English Conditionals as a case study 
to show how mental spaces can be parameter-
ized from language. 
1 