 
This paper introduces a grammar formalism 
specifically designed for syntax-based sta-
tistical machine translation. The synchro-
nous grammar formalism we propose in 
this paper takes into consideration the per-
vasive structure divergence between lan-
guages, which many other synchronous 
grammars are unable to model. A Depend-
ency Insertion Grammars (DIG) is a gen-
erative grammar formalism that captures 
word order phenomena within the depend-
ency representation. Synchronous Depend-
ency Insertion Grammars (SDIG) is the 
synchronous version of DIG which aims at 
capturing structural divergences across the 
languages. While both DIG and SDIG have 
comparatively simpler mathematical forms, 
we prove that DIG nevertheless has a gen-
eration capacity weakly equivalent to that 
of CFG. By making a comparison to TAG 
and Synchronous TAG, we show how such 
formalisms are linguistically motivated. We 
then introduce a probabilistic extension of 
SDIG. We finally evaluated our current im-
plementation of a simplified version of 
SDIG for syntax based statistical machine 
translation. 
1 