 
In this paper we compare programs of work 
that aim to develop broad coverage cross-
linguistic resources for NLP: Ontological 
Semantics (OntoSem) and SIMPLE. The 
approaches taken in these projects differ in 
three notable respects: the use of an 
ontology versus a word net as the semantic 
substrate; the development of knowledge 
resources inside of as opposed to outside of 
a processing environment; and the 
development of lexicons for multiple 
languages based on a single core lexicon or 
without such a core (i.e., in parallel 
fashion). In large part, these differences 
derive from project-driven, real-world 
requirements and available resources ? a 
reflection of their being practical rather 
than theoretical projects. However, that 
being said, we will suggest certain 
preferences  regarding the content and 
development of NLP resources with a view 
toward both short- and long-term, high-
level language processing goals. 
1 