
In this paper, we describe our experiments on
statistical word sense disambiguation (WSD)
using two systems based on different ap-
proaches: Na??ve Bayes on word tokens and Max-
imum Entropy on local syntactic and seman-
tic features. In the first approach, we consider
a context window and a sub-window within it
around the word to disambiguate. Within the
outside window, only content words are con-
sidered, but within the sub-window, all words
are taken into account. Both window sizes are
tuned by the system for each word to disam-
biguate and accuracies of 75% and 67% were re-
spectively obtained for coarse and fine grained
evaluations. In the second system, sense res-
olution is done using an approximate syntac-
tic structure as well as semantics of neighbor-
ing nouns as features to a Maximum Entropy
learner. Accuracies of 70% and 63% were ob-
tained for coarse and fine grained evaluations.
1 