
We do two things in this paper. First, we
present a model of possible causes for request-
ing clarifications in dialogue, i.e., we classify
types of non-understandings that lead to clar-
ifications. For this we make more precise the
models of communication of (Clark, 1996) and
(Allwood, 1995), relating them to an indepen-
dently motivated theory of discourse seman-
tics, SDRT (Asher and Lascarides, 2003). As
we show, the lack of such a model is a prob-
lem for extant analyses of clarification moves.
Second, we combine this model with an ex-
tended notion of ?confidence score? that com-
bines speech recognition confidence with dif-
ferent kinds of semantic and pragmatic confi-
dence, and argue that the resulting processing
model can produce a more natural clarification
and confirmation behaviour than that of current
dialogue systems. We close with a descrip-
tion of an experimental implementation of the
model.
1 