 
Automatic summarization is an active research 
area in natural language processing. This paper has 
proposed a special method that produces text 
summary by detecting thematic areas in Chinese 
document. The specificity of the method is that the 
produced summary can both cover many different 
themes and reduce its redundancy obviously at the 
same time. In this method, the detection of latent 
thematic areas is realized by adopting K-medoids 
clustering method as well as a novel clustering 
analysis method, which can be used to determine 
automatically K, the number of clusters.. In 
addition, a novel parameter, which is known as 
representation entropy, is used for summarization 
redundancy evaluation. Experimental results 
indicate a clear superiority of the proposed method  
over the traditional non-thematic-area-detection 
method under the proposed evaluation scheme 
when dealing with different genres of text 
documents with free style and flexible theme 
distribution. 
1 