 
Acceptance, accessibility, and usability data 
from a series of studies of a series of applica-
tions suggest that most users readily accept re-
sponsive virtual characters as valid 
conversational partners. By responsive virtual 
characters we mean full-body animated, con-
versant, realistic characters with whom the 
user interacts via natural language and who 
exhibit emotional, social, gestural, and cogni-
tive intelligence. We have developed applica-
tions for medical clinicians interviewing 
pediatric patients, field interviewers learning 
about in-formed consent procedures, and tele-
phone interviewers seeking to obtain coopera-
tion from respondents on federally-funded 
surveys. Usage data from informational kiosks 
using the same underlying technology (e.g., at 
conference exhibits) provide additional cor-
roboration. Our evidence suggests the tech-
nology is both sufficient to actively engage 
users and appropriate for consideration of use 
in training, assessment, and marketing envi-
ronments. 
1 