
Recent literature in computational termi-
nology has shown an increasing interest in
identifying various semantic relationships
between terms. In this paper, we pro-
pose an original strategy to find specific
noun-verb combinations in a specialized cor-
pus. We focus on verbs that convey a
meaning of realization. To acquire these
noun-verb pairs, we use asares, a machine
learning technique that automatically in-
fers extraction patterns from examples and
counter-examples of realization noun-verb
pairs. The patterns are then applied to the
corpus to retrieve new pairs. Results, mea-
sured with a large test set, show that our
acquisition technique outperforms classical
statistical methods used for collocation ac-
quisition. Moreover, the inferred patterns
yield interesting clues on which structures
are more likely to convey the target seman-
tic link.
1 