 
In this paper, we present a fully auto-
mated extraction system, named IntEx, to 
identify gene and protein interactions in 
biomedical text. Our approach is based on 
first splitting complex sentences into sim-
ple clausal structures made up of syntactic 
roles. Then, tagging biological entities 
with the help of biomedical and linguistic 
ontologies. Finally, extracting complete 
interactions by analyzing the matching 
contents of syntactic roles and their lin-
guistically significant combinations. Our 
extraction system handles complex sen-
tences and extracts multiple and nested in-
teractions specified in a sentence. 
Experimental evaluations with two other 
state of the art extraction systems indicate 
that the IntEx system achieves better per-
formance without the labor intensive pat-
tern engineering requirement. ?  
1 