
Ordinary classification techniques can
drive a conceptually simple constituent
parser that achieves near state-of-the-art
accuracy on standard test sets. Here we
present such a parser, which avoids some
of the limitations of other discriminative
parsers. In particular, it does not place
any restrictions upon which types of fea-
tures are allowed. We also present sev-
eral innovations for faster training of dis-
criminative parsers: we show how train-
ing can be parallelized, how examples
can be generated prior to training with-
out a working parser, and how indepen-
dently trained sub-classifiers that have
never done any parsing can be effectively
combined into a working parser. Finally,
we propose a new figure-of-merit for best-
first parsing with confidence-rated infer-
ences. Our implementation is freely avail-
able at: http://cs.nyu.edu/?turian/
software/parser/
1 