
Productions systems, traditionally mainly used
for developing expert systems, can also be em-
ployed for implementing chart generators. Fo-
cusing on bottom-up chart generation, we de-
scribe how the notions of chart algorithms re-
late to the knowledge base and Rete network
of production systems. We draw on experience
gained in two research projects on natural lan-
guage generation (NLG), one involving surface
realization, the other involving both a content
determination task (referring expression gener-
ation) and surface realization. The projects
centered around the idea of ?overgeneration?,
i.e. of generating large numbers of output can-
didates which served as input to a ranking com-
ponent. The purpose of this paper is to extend
the range of implementation options available
to the NLG practitioner by detailing the spe-
cific advantages and disadvantages of using pro-
duction systems for NLG.
1 