
In this paper, we propose an approach
for inferring semantic role using sub-
categorization frames and maximum
entropy model. Our approach aims to
use the sub-categorization information
of the verb to label the mandatory ar-
guments of the verb in various possi-
ble ways. The ambiguity between the
assignment of roles to mandatory argu-
ments is resolved using the maximum
entropy model. The unlabelled manda-
tory arguments and the optional argu-
ments are labelled directly using the
maximum entropy model such that their
labels are not one among the frame el-
ements of the sub-categorization frame
used. Maximum entropy model is pre-
ferred because of its novel approach
of smoothing. Using this approach,
we obtained an F-measure of 68.14%
on the development set of the data
provided for the CONLL-2005 shared
task. We show that this approach per-
forms well in comparison to an ap-
proach which uses only the maximum
entropy model.
1 