
This paper presents novel approaches to
reordering in phrase-based statistical ma-
chine translation. We perform consistent
reordering of source sentences in train-
ing and estimate a statistical translation
model. Using this model, we follow a
phrase-based monotonic machine transla-
tion approach, for which we develop an ef-
ficient and flexible reordering framework
that allows to easily introduce different re-
ordering constraints. In translation, we
apply source sentence reordering on word
level and use a reordering automaton as in-
put. We show how to compute reordering
automata on-demand using IBM or ITG
constraints, and also introduce two new
types of reordering constraints. We further
add weights to the reordering automata.
We present detailed experimental results
and show that reordering significantly im-
proves translation quality.
1 