 
In this paper, a novel machine learning 
approach for the identification of named 
entity relations (NERs) called positive 
and negative case-based learning 
(PNCBL) is proposed. It pursues the im-
provement of the identification perform-
ance for NERs through simultaneously 
learning two opposite cases and auto-
matically selecting effective multi-level 
linguistic features for NERs and non-
NERs. This approach has been applied to 
the identification of domain-specific and 
cross-sentence NERs for Chinese texts. 
The experimental results have shown that 
the overall average recall, precision, and 
F-measure for 14 NERs are 78.50%, 
63.92% and 70.46% respectively. In addi-
tion, the above F-measure has been en-
hanced from 63.61% to 70.46% due to 
adoption of both positive and negative 
cases. 
1 