
This paper presents the results of a large-
scale effort to construct a comprehensive
database of known human protein inter-
actions by combining and linking known
interactions from existing databases and
then adding to them by automatically min-
ing additional interactions from 750,000
Medline abstracts. The end result is a
network of 31,609 interactions amongst
7,748 proteins. The text mining sys-
tem first identifies protein names in the
text using a trained Conditional Random
Field (CRF) and then identifies interac-
tions through a filtered co-citation anal-
ysis. We also report two new strategies
for mining interactions, either by finding
explicit statements of interactions in the
text using learned pattern-based rules or
a Support-Vector Machine using a string
kernel. Using information in existing on-
tologies, the automatically extracted data
is shown to be of equivalent accuracy to
manually curated data sets.
1 