 
A pervasive problem facing many bio-
medical text mining applications is that of 
correctly associating mentions of entities 
in the literature with corresponding con-
cepts in a database or ontology.  Attempts 
to build systems for automating this proc-
ess have shown promise as demonstrated 
by the recent BioCreAtIvE Task 1B 
evaluation.  A significant obstacle to im-
proved performance for this task, how-
ever, is a lack of high quality training 
data. In this work, we explore methods for 
improving the quality of (noisy) Task 1B 
training data using variants of weakly su-
pervised learning methods. We present 
positive results demonstrating that these 
methods result in an improvement in 
training data quality as measured by im-
proved system performance over the same 
system using the originally labeled data. 
1 