
Decision rules that explicitly account for
non-probabilistic evaluation metrics in
machine translation typically require spe-
cial training, often to estimate parame-
ters in exponential models that govern the
search space and the selection of candi-
date translations. While the traditional
Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) decision
rule can be optimized as a piecewise lin-
ear function in a greedy search of the pa-
rameter space, the Minimum Bayes Risk
(MBR) decision rule is not well suited to
this technique, a condition that makes past
results difficult to compare. We present a
novel training approach for non-tractable
decision rules, allowing us to compare and
evaluate these and other decision rules on
a large scale translation task, taking ad-
vantage of the high dimensional parame-
ter space available to the phrase based
Pharaoh decoder. This comparison is
timely, and important, as decoders evolve
to represent more complex search space
decisions and are evaluated against in-
novative evaluation metrics of translation
quality.
1 