
This paper describes a semantic role la-
beling system that uses features derived
from different syntactic views, and com-
bines them within a phrase-based chunk-
ing paradigm. For an input sentence, syn-
tactic constituent structure parses are gen-
erated by a Charniak parser and a Collins
parser. Semantic role labels are assigned
to the constituents of each parse using
Support Vector Machine classifiers. The
resulting semantic role labels are con-
verted to an IOB representation. These
IOB representations are used as additional
features, along with flat syntactic chunks,
by a chunking SVM classifier that pro-
duces the final SRL output. This strategy
for combining features from three differ-
ent syntactic views gives a significant im-
provement in performance over roles pro-
duced by using any one of the syntactic
views individually.
1 