 
This paper presents a method for identi-
fying an opinion with its holder and 
topic, given a sentence from online news 
media texts. We introduce an approach of 
exploiting the semantic structure of a 
sentence, anchored to an opinion bearing 
verb or adjective. This method uses se-
mantic role labeling as an intermediate 
step to label an opinion holder and topic 
using data from FrameNet. We decom-
pose our task into three phases: identify-
ing an opinion-bearing word, labeling 
semantic roles related to the word in the 
sentence, and then finding the holder and 
the topic of the opinion word among the 
labeled semantic roles. For a broader 
coverage, we also employ a clustering 
technique to predict the most probable 
frame for a word which is not defined in 
FrameNet. Our experimental results show 
that our system performs significantly 
better than the baseline. 
1 