 
This paper presents a method for search-
ing the web for sentences expressing 
opinions. To retrieve an appropriate 
number of opinions that users may want 
to read, declaratively subjective clues are 
used to judge whether a sentence ex-
presses an opinion. We collected declara-
tively subjective clues in opinion-
expressing sentences from Japanese web 
pages retrieved with opinion search que-
ries. These clues were expanded with the 
semantic categories of the words in the 
sentences and were used as feature pa-
rameters in a Support Vector Machine to 
classify the sentences. Our experimental 
results using retrieved web pages on 
various topics showed that the opinion 
expressing sentences identified by the 
proposed method are congruent with sen-
tences judged by humans to express 
opinions. 
1 