
Many information extraction (IE) systems
rely on manually annotated training data
to learn patterns or rules for extracting in-
formation about events. Manually anno-
tating data is expensive, however, and a
new data set must be annotated for each
domain. So most IE training sets are rel-
atively small. Consequently, IE patterns
learned from annotated training sets of-
ten have limited coverage. In this paper,
we explore the idea of using the Web to
automatically identify domain-specific IE
patterns that were not seen in the training
data. We use IE patterns learned from the
MUC-4 training set as anchors to identify
domain-specific web pages and then learn
new IE patterns from them. We compute
the semantic affinity of each new pattern
to automatically infer the type of informa-
tion that it will extract. Experiments on
the MUC-4 test set show that these new IE
patterns improved recall with only a small
precision loss.
1 