
In this paper we will present an evaluation of
current state-of-the-art algorithms for Anaphora
Resolution based on a segment of Susanne
corpus (itself a portion of Brown Corpus), a
much more comparable text type to what is
usually required at an international level for
s u c h a p p l i c a t i o n d o m a i n s a s
Question/Answering, Information Extraction,
Text Understanding, Language Learning. The
portion of text chosen has an adequate size
which lends itself to significant statistical
measurements: it is portion A, counting 35,000
tokens and some 1000 third person pronominal
expressions. The algorithms will then be
compared to our system, GETARUNS, which
incorporates an AR algorithm at the end of a
pipeline of interconnected modules that
instantiate standard architectures for NLP. F-
measure values reached by our system are
significantly higher (75%) than the other ones.
1 