
The granularity of word senses in current
general purpose sense inventories is of-
ten too fine-grained, with narrow sense
distinctions that are irrelevant for many
NLP applications. This has particularly
been a problem with WordNet which is
widely used for word sense disambigua-
tion (WSD). There have been several at-
tempts to group WordNet senses given a
number of different information sources
in order to reduce granularity. We pro-
pose relating senses as a matter of de-
gree to permit a softer notion of relation-
ships between senses compared to fixed
groupings so that granularity can be var-
ied according to the needs of the applica-
tion. We compare two such approaches
with a gold-standard produced by humans
for this work. We also contrast this gold-
standard and another used in previous re-
search with the automatic methods for re-
lating senses for use with back-off meth-
ods for WSD.
1 