 
We describe a highly interactive system for 
bidirectional, broad-coverage spoken lan-
guage communication in the healthcare area. 
The paper briefly reviews the system's inter-
active foundations, and then goes on to dis-
cuss in greater depth issues of practical 
usability. We present our Translation Short-
cuts facility, which minimizes the need for 
interactive verification of sentences after 
they have been vetted once, considerably 
speeds throughput while maintaining accu-
racy, and allows use by minimally literate 
patients for whom any mode of text entry 
might be difficult. We also discuss facilities 
for multimodal input, in which handwriting, 
touch screen, and keyboard interfaces are of-
fered as alternatives to speech input when 
appropriate. In order to deal with issues re-
lated to sheer physical awkwardness, we 
briefly mention facilities for hands-free or 
eyes-free operation of the system. Finally, 
we point toward several directions for future 
improvement of the system. 
1 