 
In this paper we discuss the development 
of a multilingual collocation dictionary 
for translation purposes. By ?collocation? 
we mean not only set or fixed expres-
sions including idioms, simple co-
occurrences of items and metaphorical 
uses, but also translators? paraphrases. 
We approach this problem from two di-
rections. Firstly we identify certain lin-
guistic phenomena and lexicographical 
requirements that need to be respected in 
the development of such dictionaries. 
The second and other direction concerns 
the development of such dictionaries in 
which linguistic phenomena and lexico-
graphic attributes are themselves a means 
of access to the collocations. The linguis-
tic phenomena and lexicographical re-
quirements concern variously placing the 
sense of collocations rather than head-
words or other access methods at the cen-
tre of interest, together with collocation 
synonymy and translation equivalence, 
polysemy and non-reversibility of the 
lexis, and other more lexicographic prop-
erties such as varieties of language and 
regionalisms, and types of translation. 
1 