 
The present study focuses on the lexical 
meanings of prepositions rather than on 
the thematic meanings because it is in-
tended for use in an English-Bengali ma-
chine translation (MT) system, where the 
meaning of a lexical unit must be pre-
served in the target language, even 
though it may take a different syntactic 
form in the source and target languages. 
Bengali is the fifth language in the world 
in terms of the number of native speakers 
and is an important language in India. 
There is no concept of preposition in 
Bengali. English prepositions are trans-
lated to Bengali by attaching appropriate 
inflections to the head noun of the prepo-
sitional phrase (PP), i.e., the object of the 
preposition. The choice of the inflection 
depends on the spelling pattern of the 
translated Bengali head noun. Further 
postpositional words may also appear in 
the Bengali translation for some preposi-
tions. The choice of the appropriate post-
positional word depends on the WordNet 
synset information of the head noun. 
Idiomatic or metaphoric PPs are trans-
lated into Bengali by looking into a bi-
lingual example base. The analysis pre-
sented here is general and applicable for 
translation from English to many other 
Indo-Aryan languages that handle prepo-
sitions using inflections and postposi-
tions. 
1 