
The paper examines how people?s judge-
ments of proximity between two objects
are influenced by the presence of a third
object. In an experiment participants were
presented with images containing three
shapes in different relative positions, and
asked to rate the acceptability of a loca-
tive expression such as ?the circle is near
the triangle? as descriptions of those im-
ages. The results showed an interaction
between the relative positions of objects
and the linguistic roles that those objects
play in the locative expression: proximity
was a decreasing function of the distance
between the head object in the expression
and the prepositional clause object, and an
increasing function the distance between
the head and the third, distractor object.
This finding leads us to a new account for
the semantics of spatial prepositions such
as near.
1 