 
Complex Predicates or CPs are multi-
word complexes functioning as single 
verbal units. CPs are particularly 
pervasive in Hindi and other Indo-
Aryan languages, but an usage account 
driven by corpus-based identification 
of these constructs has not been 
possible since single-language systems 
based on rules and statistical 
approaches require reliable tools (POS 
taggers, parsers, etc.) that are 
unavailable for Hindi. This paper 
highlights the development of first 
such database based on the simple idea 
of projecting POS tags across an 
English-Hindi parallel corpus. The CP 
types considered include adjective-verb 
(AV), noun-verb (NV), adverb-verb 
(Adv-V), and verb-verb (VV) 
composites. CPs are hypothesized 
where a verb in English is projected 
onto a multi-word sequence in Hindi. 
While this process misses some CPs, 
those that are detected appear to be 
more reliable (83% precision, 46% 
recall). The resulting database lists 
usage instances of 1439 CPs in 4400 
sentences. 
1 