 
 
The automatic QA system described in 
this paper uses a reference interview 
model to allow the user to guide and 
contribute to the QA process.  A set of 
system capabilities was designed and 
implemented that defines how the user?s 
contributions can help improve the 
system.  These include tools, called the 
Query Template Builder and the 
Knowledge Base Builder, that tailor the 
document processing and QA system to 
a particular domain by allowing a 
Subject Matter Expert to contribute to 
the query representation and to the 
domain knowledge.  During the QA 
process, the system can interact with the 
user to improve query terminology by 
using Spell Checking, Answer Type 
verification, Expansions and Acronym 
Clarifications.  The system also has 
capabilities that depend upon, and 
expand the user?s history of interaction 
with the system, including a User 
Profile, Reference Resolution, and 
Question Similarity modules 
 
 
1  