
In this paper, we present the results of
experiments aiming to validate a two-
dimensional typology of affective states as
a suitable basis for affective classification
of texts. Using a corpus of English weblog
posts, annotated for mood by their authors,
we trained support vector machine binary
classifiers to distinguish texts on the ba-
sis of their affiliation with one region of
the space. We then report on experiments
which go a step further, using four-class
classifiers based on automated scoring of
texts for each dimension of the typology.
Our results indicate that it is possible to
extend the standard binary sentiment anal-
ysis (positive/negative) approach to a two
dimensional model (positive/negative; ac-
tive/passive), and provide some evidence
to support a more fine-grained classifica-
tion along these two axes.
1 