
This paper presents a new application of
the recently proposed machine learning
method Alternating Structure Optimiza-
tion (ASO), to word sense disambiguation
(WSD). Given a set of WSD problems
and their respective labeled examples, we
seek to improve overall performance on
that set by using all the labeled exam-
ples (irrespective of target words) for the
entire set in learning a disambiguator for
each individual problem. Thus, in effect,
on each individual problem (e.g., disam-
biguation of ?art?) we benefit from train-
ing examples for other problems (e.g.,
disambiguation of ?bar?, ?canal?, and so
forth). We empirically study the effective
use of ASO for this purpose in the multi-
task and semi-supervised learning config-
urations. Our performance results rival
or exceed those of the previous best sys-
tems on several Senseval lexical sample
task data sets.
1 