
In this paper we address the issue of au-
tomatically assigning information status to
discourse entities. Using an annotated cor-
pus of conversational English and exploit-
ing morpho-syntactic and lexical features,
we train a decision tree to classify entities
introduced by noun phrases as old, medi-
ated, or new. We compare its performance
with hand-crafted rules that are mainly
based on morpho-syntactic features and
closely relate to the guidelines that had
been used for the manual annotation. The
decision tree model achieves an overall ac-
curacy of 79.5%, significantly outperform-
ing the hand-crafted algorithm (64.4%).
We also experiment with binary classifica-
tions by collapsing in turn two of the three
target classes into one and retraining the
model. The highest accuracy achieved on
binary classification is 93.1%.
1 