 
Classification techniques deploy supervised 
labeled instances to train classifiers for 
various classification problems. However 
labeled instances are limited, expensive, 
and time consuming to obtain, due to the 
need of experienced human annotators.  
Meanwhile large amount of unlabeled data 
is usually easy to obtain. Semi-supervised 
learning addresses the problem of utilizing 
unlabeled data along with supervised la-
beled data, to build better classifiers.  In 
this paper we introduce a semi-supervised 
approach based on mutual reinforcement in 
graphs to obtain more labeled data to en-
hance the classifier accuracy. The approach 
has been used to supplement a maximum 
entropy model for semi-supervised training 
of the ACE Relation Detection and Charac-
terization (RDC) task. ACE RDC is con-
sidered a hard task in information 
extraction due to lack of large amounts of 
training data and inconsistencies in the 
available data. The proposed approach pro-
vides 10% relative improvement over the 
state of the art supervised baseline system. 
1 