 
The study presented in this paper 
explores the current state of genre 
evolution on the web through web users? 
perception. More precisely, it explores 
the perception of genres when users are 
faced not only with prototypical genre 
exemplars but also with hybrid or 
individualized web pages, and interpret 
the subjects? perception in term of genre 
evolution Although this exploration is 
partial (23 labels to be assigned to 25 
web pages), it offers an interesting 
section of the genre repertoire on the 
web. This study can be also seen as a 
confirmatory study, because it confirms 
that a number of recent web genres, 
unprecedented in the paper world (such 
as home page, FAQs, and blog) can be 
recognized by the subjects; others have 
not fully emerged and many web users 
are not familiar with their new genre 
labels; finally some web pages show a 
high level of ambiguity and web users 
largely disagree on assigning labels to 
them. 
1 