
Much work on information extraction has
successfully used gazetteers to recognise
uncommon entities that cannot be reliably
identified from local context alone. Ap-
proaches to such tasks often involve the
use of maximum entropy-style models,
where gazetteers usually appear as highly
informative features in the model. Al-
though such features can improve model
accuracy, they can also introduce hidden
negative effects. In this paper we de-
scribe and analyse these effects and sug-
gest ways in which they may be overcome.
In particular, we show that by quarantin-
ing gazetteer features and training them
in a separate model, then decoding using
a logarithmic opinion pool (Smith et al,
2005), we may achieve much higher accu-
racy. Finally, we suggest ways in which
other features with gazetteer feature-like
behaviour may be identified.
1 