
We report an experiment in which a high-
performance boosting based NER model
originally designed for multiple European
languages is instead applied to the Chi-
nese named entity recognition task of the
third SIGHAN Chinese language process-
ing bakeoff. Using a simple character-
based model along with a set of features
that are easily obtained from the Chi-
nese input strings, the system described
employs boosting, a promising and the-
oretically well-founded machine learning
method to combine a set of weak classi-
fiers together into a final system. Even
though we did no other Chinese-specific
tuning, and used only one-third of the
MSRA and CityU corpora to train the
system, reasonable results are obtained.
Our evaluation results show that 75.07 and
80.51 overall F-measures were obtained
on MSRA and CityU test sets respectively.
1 