
Question Classification is an important
task in Question Answering Systems. This
paper presents a Spanish Question Classi-
fier based on machine learning, automatic
online translators and different language
features. Our system works with Eng-
lish collections and bilingual questions
(English/Spanish). We have tested two
Spanish-English online translators to iden-
tify the lost of precision. We have made
experiments using lexical, syntactic and
semantic features to test which ones made
a better performance. The obtained results
show that our system makes good classifi-
cations, over a 80% in terms of accuracy
using the original English questions and
over a 65% using Spanish questions and
machine translation systems. Our conclu-
sion about the features is that a lexical,
syntactic and semantic features combina-
tion obtains the best result.
1 