
We present translation results on the
shared task ?Exploiting Parallel Texts for
Statistical Machine Translation? gener-
ated by a chart parsing decoder operating
on phrase tables augmented and general-
ized with target language syntactic cate-
gories. We use a target language parser
to generate parse trees for each sentence
on the target side of the bilingual train-
ing corpus, matching them with phrase
table lattices built for the corresponding
source sentence. Considering phrases that
correspond to syntactic categories in the
parse trees we develop techniques to aug-
ment (declare a syntactically motivated
category for a phrase pair) and general-
ize (form mixed terminal and nonterminal
phrases) the phrase table into a synchro-
nous bilingual grammar. We present re-
sults on the French-to-English task for this
workshop, representing significant im-
provements over the workshop?s baseline
system. Our translation system is avail-
able open-source under the GNU General
Public License.
1 