
It is well known that multi-word expres-
sions are problematic in natural language
processing. In previous literature, it has
been suggested that information about
their degree of compositionality can be
helpful in various applications but it has
not been proven empirically. In this pa-
per, we propose a framework in which
information about the multi-word expres-
sions can be used in the word-alignment
task. We have shown that even simple
features like point-wise mutual informa-
tion are useful for word-alignment task in
English-Hindi parallel corpora. The align-
ment error rate which we achieve (AER =
0.5040) is significantly better (about 10%
decrease in AER) than the alignment error
rates of the state-of-art models (Och and
Ney, 2003) (Best AER = 0.5518) on the
English-Hindi dataset.
1 