
This paper investigates whether human as-
sociations to verbs as collected in a web
experiment can help us to identify salient
verb features for semantic verb classes.
Assuming that the associations model as-
pects of verb meaning, we apply a clus-
tering to the verbs, as based on the as-
sociations, and validate the resulting verb
classes against standard approaches to se-
mantic verb classes, i.e. GermaNet and
FrameNet. Then, various clusterings of
the same verbs are performed on the basis
of standard corpus-based types, and eval-
uated against the association-based clus-
tering as well as GermaNet and FrameNet
classes. We hypothesise that the corpus-
based clusterings are better if the instan-
tiations of the feature types show more
overlap with the verb associations, and
that the associations therefore help to
identify salient feature types.
1 