 
In this paper, we present a weakly super-
vised learning approach for spoken lan-
guage understanding in domain-specific 
dialogue systems. We model the task of 
spoken language understanding as a suc-
cessive classification problem. The first 
classifier (topic classifier) is used to iden-
tify the topic of an input utterance. With 
the restriction of the recognized target 
topic, the second classifier (semantic 
classifier) is trained to extract the corre-
sponding slot-value pairs. It is mainly 
data-driven and requires only minimally 
annotated corpus for training whilst re-
taining the understanding robustness and 
deepness for spoken language. Most im-
portantly, it allows the employment of 
weakly supervised strategies for training 
the two classifiers. We first apply the 
training strategy of combining active 
learning and self-training (Tur et al, 
2005) for topic classifier. Also, we pro-
pose a practical method for bootstrapping 
the topic-dependent semantic classifiers 
from a small amount of labeled sentences. 
Experiments have been conducted in the 
context of Chinese public transportation 
information inquiry domain. The experi-
mental results demonstrate the effective-
ness of our proposed SLU framework 
and show the possibility to reduce human 
labeling efforts significantly. 
1 