 
This paper describes automatic treatment 
of multi-word expressions in a 
morphologically complex flective 
language ? Estonian. It focuses on a 
special type of multi-word expressions ? 
the verbal multi-word expressions that 
can function as predicates. Authors 
describe two language resources ? a 
database of verbal multi-word 
expressions and a corpus where these 
items have been annotated manually. The 
analysis of the annotated corpus 
demonstrates that the Estonian verbal 
multi-word expressions alternate in 
several grammatical categories. Different 
types of the verbal multi-word 
expressions (opaque and transparent 
idioms, support verb constructions and 
collocations) behave differently in the 
corpus with regard to the freedom of 
alternation. The paper describes main 
types of these alternations and the 
methods for dealing with them 
automatically. 
 
1 