
This paper proposes an unsupervised
lexicon building method for the detec-
tion of polar clauses, which convey pos-
itive or negative aspects in a specific
domain. The lexical entries to be ac-
quired are called polar atoms, the min-
imum human-understandable syntactic
structures that specify the polarity of
clauses. As a clue to obtain candidate
polar atoms, we use context coherency,
the tendency for same polarities to ap-
pear successively in contexts. Using
the overall density and precision of co-
herency in the corpus, the statistical
estimation picks up appropriate polar
atoms among candidates, without any
manual tuning of the threshold values.
The experimental results show that the
precision of polarity assignment with
the automatically acquired lexicon was
94% on average, and our method is ro-
bust for corpora in diverse domains and
for the size of the initial lexicon.
1 