 
Textual Entailment Recognition is a se-
mantic inference task that is required in 
many natural language processing (NLP) 
applications. In this paper, we present our 
system for the third PASCAL recognizing 
textual entailment (RTE-3) challenge. The 
system is built on a machine learning 
framework with the following features de-
rived by state-of-the-art NLP techniques: 
lexical semantic similarity (LSS), named 
entities (NE), dependent content word pairs 
(DEP), average distance (DIST), negation 
(NG), task (TK), and text length (LEN). On 
the RTE-3 test dataset, our system achieves 
the accuracy of 0.64 and 0.6488 for the two 
official submissions, respectively. Experi-
mental results show that LSS and NE are 
the most effective features. Further analy-
ses indicate that a baseline dummy system 
can achieve accuracy 0.545 on the RTE-3 
test dataset, which makes RTE-3 relatively 
easier than RTE-2 and RTE-1. In addition, 
we demonstrate with examples that the cur-
rent Average Precision measure and its 
evaluation process need to be changed. 
1 