 
Despite the popularity of stochastic parsers, 
symbolic parsing still has some advantages, 
but is not practical without an effective 
mechanism for selecting among alternative 
analyses. This paper describes the symbolic 
preference system of a hybrid parser that 
combines a shallow parser with an overlay 
parser that builds on the chunks.  The hy-
brid currently equals or exceeds most sto-
chastic parsers in speed and is approaching 
them in accuracy. The preference system is 
novel in using a simple, three-valued scor-
ing method (-1, 0, or +1) for assigning 
preferences to constituents viewed in the 
context of their containing constituents.  
The approach addresses problems associ-
ated with earlier preference systems, and 
has considerably facilitated development. It 
is ultimately based on viewing preference 
scoring as an engineering mechanism, and 
only indirectly related to cognitive princi-
ples or corpus-based frequencies.  
1 