
This paper reports on a shared task involving
the assignment of ICD-9-CM codes to radi-
ology reports. Two features distinguished
this task from previous shared tasks in the
biomedical domain. One is that it resulted in
the first freely distributable corpus of fully
anonymized clinical text. This resource is
permanently available and will (we hope) fa-
cilitate future research. The other key fea-
ture of the task is that it required catego-
rization with respect to a large and commer-
cially significant set of labels. The number
of participants was larger than in any pre-
vious biomedical challenge task. We de-
scribe the data production process and the
evaluation measures, and give a preliminary
analysis of the results. Many systems per-
formed at levels approaching the inter-coder
agreement, suggesting that human-like per-
formance on this task is within the reach of
currently available technologies.
1 