 
In this paper a system for Named Entity 
Recognition and Classification in Croatian 
language is described. The system is com-
posed of the module for sentence segmen-
tation, inflectional lexicon of common 
words, inflectional lexicon of names and 
regular local grammars for automatic rec-
ognition of numerical and temporal expres-
sions. After the first step (sentence segmen-
tation), the system attaches to each token 
its full morphosyntactic description and 
appropriate lemma and additional tags for 
potential categories for names without dis-
ambiguation. The third step (the core of the 
system) is the application of a set of rules 
for recognition and classification of named 
entities in already annotated texts. Rules 
based on described strategies (like internal 
and external evidence) are applied in cas-
cade of transducers in defined order. Al-
though there are other classification sys-
tems for NEs, the results of our system are 
annotated NEs which are following MUC-7 
specification. System is applied on infor-
mative and noninformative texts and results 
are compared. F-measure of the system ap-
plied on informative texts yields over 90%. 
1 