
The C&C CCG parser is a highly efficient
linguistically motivated parser. The effi-
ciency is achieved using a tightly-integrated
supertagger, which assigns CCG lexical cat-
egories to words in a sentence. The integra-
tion allows the parser to request more cat-
egories if it cannot find a spanning anal-
ysis. We present several enhancements to
the CKY chart parsing algorithm used by the
parser. The first proposal is chart repair,
which allows the chart to be efficiently up-
dated by adding lexical categories individu-
ally, and we evaluate several strategies for
adding these categories. The second pro-
posal is to add constraints to the chart which
require certain spans to be constituents. Fi-
nally, we propose partial beam search to fur-
ther reduce the search space. Overall, the
parsing speed is improved by over 35% with
negligible loss of accuracy or coverage.
1 