
The SemEval-2007 task to disambiguate
prepositions was designed as a lexical sample
task. A set of over 25,000 instances was
developed, covering 34 of the most frequent
English prepositions, with two-thirds of the
instances for training and one-third as the test
set. Each instance identified a preposition to be
tagged in a full sentence taken from the
FrameNet corpus (mostly from the British
National Corpus). Definitions from the Oxford
Dictionary of English formed the sense
inventories. Three teams participated, with all
achieving supervised results significantly
better than baselines, with a high fine-grained
precision of 0.693. This level is somewhat
similar to results on lexical sample tasks with
open class words, indicating that significant
progress has been made. The data generated in
the task provides ample opportunitites for
further investigations of preposition behavior.
1 