
This paper presents an active learning-like
framework for reducing the human effort for
making named entity annotations in a corpus.
In this framework, the annotation work is per-
formed as an iterative and interactive process
between the human annotator and a proba-
bilistic named entity tagger. At each itera-
tion, sentences that are most likely to con-
tain named entities of the target category are
selected by the probabilistic tagger and pre-
sented to the annotator. This iterative anno-
tation process is repeated until the estimated
coverage reaches the desired level. Unlike ac-
tive learning approaches, our framework pro-
duces a named entity corpus that is free from
the sampling bias introduced by the active
strategy. We evaluated our framework by
simulating the annotation process using two
named entity corpora and show that our ap-
proach could drastically reduce the number
of sentences to be annotated when applied to
sparse named entities.
1 