 
The goal of the Penn Discourse Treebank 
(PDTB) project is to develop a large-scale cor-
pus, annotated with coherence relations marked 
by discourse connectives. Currently, the primary 
application of the PDTB annotation has been to 
news articles. In this study, we tested whether 
the PDTB guidelines can be adapted to a differ-
ent genre. We annotated discourse connectives 
and their arguments in one 4,937-token full-text 
biomedical article. Two linguist annotators 
showed an agreement of 85% after simple con-
ventions were added. For the remaining 15% 
cases, we found that biomedical domain-specific 
knowledge is needed to capture the linguistic 
cues that can be used to resolve inter-annotator 
disagreement. We found that the two annotators 
were able to reach an agreement after discussion. 
Thus our experiments suggest that the PDTB an-
notation can be adapted to new domains by mini-
mally adjusting the guidelines and by adding 
some further domain-specific linguistic cues. 
1 