 
Tutorial dialogue has been the subject of in-
creasing attention in recent years, and it has 
become evident that empirical studies of hu-
man-human tutorial dialogue can contribute 
important insights to the design of computa-
tional models of dialogue.  This paper reports 
on a corpus study of human-human tutorial 
dialogue transpiring in the course of problem-
solving in a learning environment for intro-
ductory computer science.  Analyses suggest 
that the choice of corrective tutorial strategy 
makes a significant difference in the outcomes 
of both student learning gains and self-
efficacy gains.  The findings reveal that tuto-
rial strategies intended to maximize student 
motivational outcomes (e.g., self-efficacy 
gain) may not be the same strategies that 
maximize cognitive outcomes (i.e., learning 
gain).  In light of recent findings that learner 
characteristics influence the structure of tuto-
rial dialogue, we explore the importance of 
understanding the interaction between learner 
characteristics and tutorial dialogue strategy 
choice when designing tutorial dialogue sys-
tems.  
1 