
This paper investigates, in a first stage,
some methods for the automatic acquisi-
tion of verb-particle constructions (VPCs)
taking into account their statistical prop-
erties and some regular patterns found in
productive combinations of verbs and par-
ticles. Given the limited coverage pro-
vided by lexical resources, such as dictio-
naries, and the constantly growing number
of VPCs, possible ways of automatically
identifying them are crucial for any NLP
task that requires some degree of semantic
interpretation. In a second stage we also
study whether the combination of statis-
tical and linguistic properties can provide
some indication of the degree of idiomatic-
ity of a given VPC. The results obtained
show that such combination can success-
fully be used to detect VPCs and distin-
guish idiomatic from compositional cases.
1 