
Question answering (QA) is the task of
finding a concise answer to a natural lan-
guage question. The first stage of QA in-
volves information retrieval. Therefore,
performance of an information retrieval
subsystem serves as an upper bound for the
performance of a QA system. In this work
we use phrases automatically identified
from questions as exact match constituents
to search queries. Our results show an im-
provement over baseline on several docu-
ment and sentence retrieval measures on
the WEB dataset. We get a 20% relative
improvement in MRR for sentence extrac-
tion on the WEB dataset when using au-
tomatically generated phrases and a fur-
ther 9.5% relative improvement when us-
ing manually annotated phrases. Surpris-
ingly, a separate experiment on the indexed
AQUAINT dataset showed no effect on IR
performance of using exact phrases.
1 