  
This paper presents a method to integrate 
multiple reordering strategies in 
phrase-based statistical machine 
translation.  Recently there has been much 
research effort in reordering problems in 
machine translation.   State-of-the-art 
decoders incorporate sophisticated local 
reordering strategies, but there is little 
research on a unified approach to 
incorporate various kinds of reordering 
methods.  We present a phrase-based 
decoder which easily allows multiple 
reordering schemes.  We show how to use 
this framework to perform distance-based 
reordering and HIERO-style (Chiang 
2005) hierarchical reordering.  We also 
present two novel syntax-based reordering 
methods, one built on part-of-speech tags 
and the other based on parse trees.  We will 
give experimental results using these 
relatively easy to implement methods on 
standard tests.    
1 