
We explore the augmentation of statistical ma-
chine translation models with features of the
context of each phrase to be translated. This
work extends several existing threads of re-
search in statistical MT, including the use of
context in example-based machine translation
(Carl and Way, 2003) and the incorporation of
word sense disambiguation into a translation
model (Chan et al, 2007). The context fea-
tures we consider use surrounding words and
part-of-speech tags, local syntactic structure,
and other properties of the source language
sentence to help predict each phrase?s transla-
tion. Our approach requires very little compu-
tation beyond the standard phrase extraction
algorithm and scales well to large data sce-
narios. We report significant improvements
in automatic evaluation scores for Chinese-
to-English and English-to-German translation,
and also describe our entry in the WMT-08
shared task based on this approach.
1 