
Passage retrieval is used in QA to fil-
ter large document collections in order
to find text units relevant for answering
given questions. In our QA system we ap-
ply standard IR techniques and index-time
passaging in the retrieval component. In
this paper we investigate several ways of
dividing documents into passages. In par-
ticular we look at semantically motivated
approaches (using coreference chains and
discourse clues) compared with simple
window-based techniques. We evaluate
retrieval performance and the overall QA
performance in order to study the impact
of the different segmentation approaches.
From our experiments we can conclude
that the simple techniques using fixed-
sized windows clearly outperform the se-
mantically motivated approaches, which
indicates that uniformity in size seems to
be more important than semantic coher-
ence in our setup.
1 