
A semantic parser learning system learns
to map natural language sentences into
their domain-specific formal meaning rep-
resentations, but if the constructs of the
meaning representation language do not
correspond well with the natural language
then the system may not learn a good se-
mantic parser. This paper presents ap-
proaches for automatically transforming a
meaning representation grammar (MRG)
to conform it better with the natural lan-
guage semantics. It introduces grammar
transformation operators and meaning rep-
resentation macros which are applied in an
error-driven manner to transform an MRG
while training a semantic parser learning
system. Experimental results show that the
automatically transformed MRGs lead to
better learned semantic parsers which per-
form comparable to the semantic parsers
learned using manually engineered MRGs.
1 