 
Complex predicate is a noun, a verb, an ad-
jective or an adverb followed by a light verb 
that behaves as a single unit of verb. Com-
plex predicates (CPs) are abundantly used in 
Hindi and other languages of Indo Aryan 
family.  Detecting and interpreting CPs con-
stitute an important and somewhat a diffi-
cult task. The linguistic and statistical 
methods have yielded limited success in 
mining this data. In this paper, we present a 
simple method for detecting CPs of all kinds 
using a Hindi-English parallel corpus. A CP 
is hypothesized by detecting absence of the 
conventional meaning of the light verb in 
the aligned English sentence. This simple 
strategy exploits the fact that CP is a multi-
word expression with a meaning that is dis-
tinct from the meaning of the light verb. Al-
though there are several shortcomings in the 
methodology, this empirical method surpri-
singly yields mining of CPs with an average 
precision of 89% and a recall of 90%.   
1 