 
Users of Natural Language Generation 
systems are required to have sophisti-
cated linguistic and sometimes even pro-
gramming knowledge, which has hin-
dered the adoption of this technology by 
individuals outside the computational 
linguistics research community. We have 
designed and implemented a visual envi-
ronment for creating and modifying NLG 
templates which requires no program-
ming ability and minimum linguistic 
knowledge. It allows specifying tem-
plates with any number of variables and 
dependencies between them. Internally, it 
uses SimpleNLG to provide the linguistic 
background knowledge. We tested the 
performance of our system in the context 
of an interactive simulation game. We 
describe the templates used for testing 
and show examples of sentences that our 
system generates from these templates. 
1 