
The alignment problem for synchronous
grammars in its unrestricted form, i.e. whether
for a grammar and a string pair the grammar
induces an alignment of the two strings, re-
duces to the universal recognition problem,
but restrictions may be imposed on the align-
ment sought, e.g. alignments may be 1 : 1,
island-free or sure-possible sorted. The com-
plexities of 15 restricted alignment problems
in two very different synchronous grammar
formalisms of syntax-based machine transla-
tion, inversion transduction grammars (ITGs)
(Wu, 1997) and a restricted form of range
concatenation grammars ((2,2)-BRCGs) (S?-
gaard, 2008), are investigated. The universal
recognition problems, and therefore also the
unrestricted alignment problems, of both for-
malisms can be solved in time O(n6|G|). The
complexities of the restricted alignment prob-
lems differ significantly, however.
1 