
LOGUS is a French-speaking spoken lan-
guage understanding (SLU) system which
carries out a deeper analysis than those
achieved by standard concept spotters. It
is designed for multi-domain conversa-
tional systems or for systems that are
working on complex application domains.
Based on a logical approach, the sys-
tem adapts the ideas of incremental ro-
bust parsing to the issue of SLU. The pa-
per provides a detailed description of the
system as well as results from two evalu-
ation campaigns that concerned all of cur-
rent French-speaking SLU systems. The
observed error rates suggest that our log-
ical approach can stand comparison with
concept spotters on restricted application
domains, but also that its behaviour is
promising for larger domains. The ques-
tion of the generality of the approach is
precisely addressed by our current inves-
tigations on a new task: SLU for an emo-
tional robot companion for young hospital
patents.
1 