
Pairwise string alignment (PSA) is an im-
portant general technique for obtaining a
measure of similarity between two strings,
used e.g., in dialectology, historical lin-
guistics, transliteration, and in evaluating
name distinctiveness. The current study
focuses on evaluating different PSA meth-
ods at the alignment level instead of via
the distances it induces. About 3.5 million
pairwise alignments of Bulgarian phonetic
dialect data are used to compare four al-
gorithms with a manually corrected gold
standard. The algorithms evaluated in-
clude three variants of the Levenshtein al-
gorithm as well as the Pair Hidden Markov
Model. Our results show that while all
algorithms perform very well and align
around 95% of all alignments correctly,
there are specific qualitative differences in
the (mis)alignments of the different algo-
rithms.
1 