
In this paper, we investigate a novel approach 
to correcting grammatical  and lexical  errors 
in texts written by second language authors. 
Contrary to previous approaches which tend 
to use unilingual models of the user's second 
language (L2), this new approach uses a sim-
ple  roundtrip  Machine  Translation  method 
which  leverages  information about  both the 
author?s first (L1) and second languages. We 
compare  the  repair  rate  of  this  roundtrip 
translation approach to that of an existing ap-
proach based on a unilingual L2 model with 
shallow  syntactic  pruning,  on  a  series  of 
preposition choice errors. We find no statisti-
cally significant  difference between the two 
approaches,  but find that a hybrid combina-
tion of both does perform significantly better 
than either one in isolation. Finally, we illus-
trate how the translation approach has the po-
tential  of  repairing  very  complex  errors 
which would be hard to treat without leverag-
ing knowledge of the author's L1.
1 