
This paper presents a preliminary English
corpus study of split utterances (SUs), sin-
gle utterances split between two or more
dialogue turns or speakers. It has been
suggested that SUs are a key phenomenon
of dialogue, which this study confirms: al-
most 20% of utterances were found to fit
this general definition, with nearly 3% be-
ing the between-speaker case most often
studied. Other claims/assumptions in the
literature about SUs? form and distribu-
tion are investigated, with preliminary re-
sults showing: splits can occur within syn-
tactic constituents, apparently at any point
in the string; it is unusual for the sepa-
rate parts to be complete units in their own
right; explicit repair of the antecedent does
not occur very often. The theoretical con-
sequences of these results for claims in
the literature are pointed out. The prac-
tical implications for dialogue systems are
mentioned too.
1 