 
The evaluation of scientific performance is 
gaining importance in all research disciplines. 
The basic process of the evaluation is peer 
reviewing, which is a time-consuming activ-
ity. In order to facilitate and speed up peer 
reviewing processes we have developed an 
exploratory NLP system in the field of educa-
tional sciences. The system highlights key 
sentences, which are supposed to reflect the 
most important threads of the article The 
highlighted sentences offer guidance on  the 
content-level while structural elements ? the 
title, abstract, keywords, section headings ? 
give an orientation about the design of the ar-
gumentation in the article. The system is im-
plemented using a discourse analysis module 
called concept matching applied on top of the 
Xerox Incremental Parser, a rule-based de-
pendency parser. The first results are promis-
ing and indicate the directions for the future 
development of the system.  
1 