 
 
This paper reports a voted Named Entity Rec-
ognition (NER) system with the use of appro-
priate unlabeled data. The proposed method is 
based on the classifiers such as Maximum En-
tropy (ME), Conditional Random Field (CRF) 
and Support Vector Machine (SVM) and has 
been tested for Bengali. The system makes use 
of the language independent features in the 
form of different contextual and orthographic 
word level features along with the language 
dependent features extracted from the Part of 
Speech (POS) tagger and gazetteers. Context 
patterns generated from the unlabeled data us-
ing an active learning method have been used 
as the features in each of the classifiers. A 
semi-supervised method has been used to de-
scribe the measures to automatically select ef-
fective documents and sentences from unla-
beled data. Finally, the models have been 
combined together into a final system by 
weighted voting technique. Experimental re-
sults show the effectiveness of the proposed 
approach with the overall Recall, Precision, 
and F-Score values of 93.81%, 92.18% and 
92.98%, respectively. We have shown how the 
language dependent features can improve the 
system performance. 
1 