
Gestures are usually looked at in isola-
tion or from an intra-propositional per-
spective essentially tied to one speaker.
The Bielefeld multi-modal Speech-And-
Gesture-Alignment (SAGA) corpus has
many interactive gestures relevant for the
structure of dialogue (Rieser 2008, 2009).
To describe them, a dialogue theory is
needed which can serve as a speech-
gesture interface. PTT (Poesio and Traum
1997, Poesio and Rieser submitted a) can
do this job in principle, how this can be
achieved is the main topic of this paper.
As a precondition, the empirical research
procedure from systematic corpus annota-
tion via gesture typology to a partial on-
tology for gestures is described. It is then
explained how PTT is extended to provide
an incremental modelling of speech plus
gesture in an assertion-acknowledgement
adjacency pair where grounding between
dialogue participants is obtained through
gesture.
1 