 
 
This article is concerned with Extreme Case 
Formulations (ECFs) (Edwards, 2000; 
Pomerantz, 1986) in spontaneous Cypriot 
Greek conversations.1 This study confirms 
the occurrence of ECFs in complaints as 
identified by Edwards (2000) Pomerantz 
(1986), but goes one step further to analyse 
the sequential and interaction work 
accomplished with ECFs in reporting 
?opposition-type stories? (Schegloff, 1984) 
and in complaining about a non-present 
party?s misbehaviour. Opposition-type 
stories report the oppositional conversation 
of the teller with a third non-present party 
(id.). Interestingly, in the conversational 
extracts examined in this study, the 
conversation reported is culminated with the 
opponent?s reported extreme claim (ECF) 
occupying the last turn. The occurrence of an 
ECF at that marked place, that is, at the 
punchline of the telling, is associated with 
issues of affiliation and stance since it is 
placed exactly before the recipient?s slot 
upon story completion, which is a regular 
place for the occurrence of evaluation 
(Schegloff, 1984). 
 
 
1 