
We explored novel automatic evaluation
measures for machine translation output
oriented to the syntactic structure of the
sentence: the BLEU score on the detailed
Part-of-Speech (POS) tags as well as the
precision, recall and F-measure obtained
on POS n-grams. We also introduced F-
measure based on both word and POS n-
grams. Correlations between the new met-
rics and human judgments were calcu-
lated on the data of the first, second and
third shared task of the Statistical Machine
Translation Workshop. Machine transla-
tion outputs in four different European
languages were taken into account: En-
glish, Spanish, French and German. The
results show that the new measures cor-
relate very well with the human judge-
ments and that they are competitive with
the widely used BLEU, METEOR and TER
metrics.
1 