
Various techniques have been developed to au-
tomatically induce semantic dictionaries from
text corpora and from the Web. Our research
combines corpus-based semantic lexicon in-
duction with statistics acquired from the Web
to improve the accuracy of automatically ac-
quired domain-specific dictionaries. We use
a weakly supervised bootstrapping algorithm
to induce a semantic lexicon from a text cor-
pus, and then issue Web queries to generate
co-occurrence statistics between each lexicon
entry and semantically related terms. The Web
statistics provide a source of independent ev-
idence to confirm, or disconfirm, that a word
belongs to the intended semantic category. We
evaluate this approach on 7 semantic cate-
gories representing two domains. Our results
show that the Web statistics dramatically im-
prove the ranking of lexicon entries, and can
also be used to filter incorrect entries.
1 