
In this paper we describe an authoring
environment for the creation of cultural-
domain ontologies and the associated lin-
guistic and profile annotations, for dy-
namically generating adaptable natural-
language descriptions of the cultural ob-
jects in the ontology. Adaptation is
achieved at the expense of considerable
authoring effort, since it relies on pro-
viding numerical parameters for each on-
tological entity. To assist the authoring
process, we provide an intelligent author-
ing back-end that completes manually au-
thored models by inferring missing values.
This intelligent authoring support facility,
combined with immediate previews, can
considerably reduce the effort required to
create a fully functional model as the au-
thor can iterate through cycles of provid-
ing information, previewing the generated
text, and only elaborating the model where
the text is unsatisfactory.
1 