 
 
Acquisition of verb subcategorization frames 
is important as verbs generally take different 
types of relevant arguments associated with 
each phrase in a sentence in comparison to 
other parts of speech categories. This paper 
presents the acquisition of different subcate-
gorization frames for a Bengali verb Kara 
(do). It generates compound verbs in Bengali 
when combined with various noun phrases. 
The main hypothesis here is that the subcate-
gorization frames for a Bengali verb are same 
with the subcategorization frames for its 
equivalent English verb with an identical 
sense tag.  Syntax plays the main role in the 
acquisition of Bengali verb subcategorization 
frames. The output frames of the Bengali 
verbs have been compared with the frames of 
the equivalent English verbs identified using 
a Bengali-English bilingual lexicon. The 
flexible ordering of different phrases, addi-
tional attachment of optional phrases in Ben-
gali sentences make this frames acquisition 
task challenging. This system has demon-
strated precision and recall values of 77.11% 
and 88.23% respectively on a test set of 100 
sentences. 
1 