
English pronouns like he and they reliably re-
flect the gender and number of the entities to
which they refer. Pronoun resolution systems
can use this fact to filter noun candidates that
do not agree with the pronoun gender. In-
deed, broad-coverage models of noun gender
have proved to be the most important source
of world knowledge in automatic pronoun res-
olution systems.
Previous approaches predict gender by count-
ing the co-occurrence of nouns with pronouns
of each gender class. While this provides use-
ful statistics for frequent nouns, many infre-
quent nouns cannot be classified using this
method. Rather than using co-occurrence in-
formation directly, we use it to automatically
annotate training examples for a large-scale
discriminative gender model. Our model col-
lectively classifies all occurrences of a noun
in a document using a wide variety of con-
textual, morphological, and categorical gender
features. By leveraging large volumes of un-
labeled data, our full semi-supervised system
reduces error by 50% over the existing state-
of-the-art in gender classification.
1 