
Fully unsupervised pattern-based methods
for discovery of word categories have been
proven to be useful in several languages.
The majority of these methods rely on the
existence of function words as separate
text units. However, in morphology-rich
languages, in particular Semitic languages
such as Hebrew and Arabic, the equiva-
lents of such function words are usually
written as morphemes attached as prefixes
to other words. As a result, they are missed
by word-based pattern discovery methods,
causing many useful patterns to be unde-
tected and a drastic deterioration in per-
formance. To enable high quality lexical
category acquisition, we propose a sim-
ple unsupervised word segmentation algo-
rithm that separates these morphemes. We
study the performance of the algorithm for
Hebrew and Arabic, and show that it in-
deed improves a state-of-art unsupervised
concept acquisition algorithm in Hebrew.
1 