 
This paper proposes a new bootstrapping 
framework using cross-lingual information pro-
jection. We demonstrate that this framework is 
particularly effective for a challenging NLP task 
which is situated at the end of a pipeline and 
thus suffers from the errors propagated from up-
stream processing and has low-performance 
baseline. Using Chinese event extraction as a 
case study and bitexts as a new source of infor-
mation, we present three bootstrapping tech-
niques. We first conclude that the standard 
mono-lingual bootstrapping approach is not so 
effective. Then we exploit a second approach 
that potentially benefits from the extra informa-
tion captured by an English event extraction sys-
tem and projected into Chinese. Such a cross-
lingual scheme produces significant performance 
gain. Finally we show that the combination of 
mono-lingual and cross-lingual information in 
bootstrapping can further enhance the perfor-
mance. Ultimately this new framework obtained 
10.1% relative improvement in trigger labeling 
(F-measure) and 9.5% relative improvement in 
argument-labeling. 
1 