
A key concern in building syntax-based ma-
chine translation systems is how to improve
coverage by incorporating more traditional
phrase-based SMT phrase pairs that do not
correspond to syntactic constituents. At the
same time, it is desirable to include as much
syntactic information in the system as pos-
sible in order to carry out linguistically mo-
tivated reordering, for example. We apply
an extended and modified version of the ap-
proach of Tinsley et al (2007), extracting
syntax-based phrase pairs from a large parallel
parsed corpus, combining them with PBSMT
phrases, and performing joint decoding in a
syntax-based MT framework without loss of
translation quality. This effectively addresses
the low coverage of purely syntactic MT with-
out discarding syntactic information. Further,
we show the potential for improved transla-
tion results with the inclusion of a syntactic
grammar. We also introduce a new syntax-
prioritized technique for combining syntactic
and non-syntactic phrases that reduces overall
phrase table size and decoding time by 61%,
with only a minimal drop in automatic trans-
lation metric scores.
1 