
Specifying an appropriate feature space is an
important aspect of achieving good perfor-
mance when designing systems based upon
learned classifiers. Effectively incorporat-
ing information regarding semantically related
words into the feature space is known to pro-
duce robust, accurate classifiers and is one ap-
parent motivation for efforts to automatically
generate such resources. However, naive in-
corporation of this semantic information may
result in poor performance due to increased
ambiguity. To overcome this limitation, we
introduce the interactive feature space con-
struction protocol, where the learner identi-
fies inadequate regions of the feature space
and in coordination with a domain expert adds
descriptiveness through existing semantic re-
sources. We demonstrate effectiveness on an
entity and relation extraction system includ-
ing both performance improvements and ro-
bustness to reductions in annotated data.
1 