
We describe the LIU systems for English-
German and German-English translation
in the WMT09 shared task. We focus on
two methods to improve the word align-
ment: (i) by applying Giza++ in a sec-
ond phase to a reordered training cor-
pus, where reordering is based on the
alignments from the first phase, and (ii)
by adding lexical data obtained as high-
precision alignments from a different word
aligner. These methods were studied in
the context of a system that uses com-
pound processing, a morphological se-
quence model for German, and a part-
of-speech sequence model for English.
Both methods gave some improvements to
translation quality as measured by Bleu
and Meteor scores, though not consis-
tently. All systems used both out-of-
domain and in-domain data as the mixed
corpus had better scores in the baseline
configuration.
1 