
Dictionaries of biomedical concepts (e.g. dis-
eases, medical treatments) are critical source
of background knowledge for systems doing
biomedical information retrieval, extraction,
and automated discovery. However, the rapid
pace of biomedical research and the lack of
constraints on usage ensure that such dictio-
naries are incomplete. Focusing on medical
treatment concepts (e.g. drugs, medical pro-
cedures and medical devices), we have devel-
oped an unsupervised, iterative pattern learn-
ing approach for constructing a comprehen-
sive dictionary of medical treatment terms
from randomized clinical trial (RCT) ab-
stracts. We have investigated different meth-
ods of seeding, either with a seed pattern or
seed instances (terms), and have compared
different ranking methods for ranking ex-
tracted context patterns and instances. When
used to identify treatment concepts from 100
randomly chosen, manually annotated RCT
abstracts, our medical treatment dictionary
shows better performance (precision:0.40, re-
call: 0.92 and F-measure: 0.54) over the
most widely used manually created medical
treatment terminology (precision: 0.41, recall:
0.52 and F-measure: 0.42).
1 