 
The system presented in this paper uses 
phrase-based statistical machine translation 
(SMT) techniques to directly transliterate be-
tween all language pairs in this shared task. 
The technique makes no language specific as-
sumptions, uses no dictionaries or explicit 
phonetic information. The translation process 
transforms sequences of tokens in the source 
language directly into to sequences of tokens 
in the target. All language pairs were transli-
terated by applying this technique in a single 
unified manner. The machine translation sys-
tem used was a system comprised of two 
phrase-based SMT decoders. The first gener-
ated from the first token of the target to the 
last. The second system generated the target 
from last to first. Our results show that if only 
one of these decoding strategies is to be cho-
sen, the optimal choice depends on the lan-
guages involved, and that in general a combi-
nation of the two approaches is able to outper-
form either approach.  
1 