 
As my title suggests, this position paper focuses 
on the relevance of linguistics in NLP instead of 
asking the inverse question. Although the ques-
tion about the role of computational linguistics 
in the study of language may theoretically be 
much more interesting than the selected topic, I 
feel that my choice is more appropriate for the 
purpose and context of this workshop. 
This position paper starts with some retrospec-
tive observations clarifying my view on the am-
bivalent and multi-facetted relationship between 
linguistics and computational linguistics as it 
has evolved from both applied and theoretical 
research on language processing. In four brief 
points I will then strongly advocate a strength-
ened relationship from which both sides benefit.   
First, I will observe that recent developments in 
both deep linguistic processing and statistical 
NLP suggest a certain plausible division of labor 
between the two paradigms. 
Second, I want to propose a systematic approach 
to research on hybrid systems which determines 
optimal combinations of the paradigms and con-
tinuously monitors the division of labor as both 
paradigm progress. Concrete examples illustrat-
ing the proposal are taken from our own re-
search. 
Third, I will argue that a central vision of 
computational linguistics is still alive, the dream 
of a formalized reusable linguistic knowledge 
source embodying the core competence of a 
language that can be utilized for wide range of 
applications.   
1 