 
Question answering is different from infor-
mation retrieval in that it attempts to an-
swer questions by providing summaries 
from numerous retrieved documents rather 
than by simply providing a list of docu-
ments that requires users to do additional 
work.  However, the quality of answers that 
question answering provides has not been 
investigated extensively, and the practical 
approach to presenting question answers 
still needs more study. In addition to fac-
toid answering using phrases or entities, 
most question answering systems use a sen-
tence-based approach for generating an-
swers. However, many sentences are often 
only meaningful or understandable in their 
context, and a passage-based presentation 
can often provide richer, more coherent 
context. However, passage-based presenta-
tions may introduce additional noise that 
places greater burden on users. In this 
study, we performed a quantitative evalua-
tion on the two kinds of presentation pro-
duced by our online clinical question 
answering system, AskHERMES 
(http://www.AskHERMES.org). The over-
all finding is that, although irrelevant con-
text can hurt the quality of an answer, the 
passage-based approach is generally more 
effective in that it provides richer context 
and matching across sentences. 
1 