
We present a semi-supervised (bootstrapping)
approach to the extraction of time expression
mentions in large unlabelled corpora. Because
the only supervision is in the form of seed
examples, it becomes necessary to resort to
heuristics to rank and filter out spurious pat-
terns and candidate time expressions. The
application of bootstrapping to time expres-
sion recognition is, to the best of our knowl-
edge, novel. In this paper, we describe one
such architecture for bootstrapping Informa-
tion Extraction (IE) patterns ?suited to the
extraction of entities, as opposed to events or
relations? and summarize our experimental
findings. These point out to the fact that a
pattern set with a good increase in recall with
respect to the seeds is achievable within our
framework while, on the other side, the de-
crease in precision in successive iterations is
succesfully controlled through the use of rank-
ing and selection heuristics. Experiments are
still underway to achieve the best use of these
heuristics and other parameters of the boot-
strapping algorithm.
1 