 
Nowadays, most commercial and research 
dialogue applications for call centers are 
created using sophisticated and fully-
feature development platforms. Surpris-
ingly, most of them lack of some kind of 
acceleration strategy based on an automatic 
analysis of the contents or structure of the 
backend database. This paper describes our 
efforts to incorporate this kind of informa-
tion which continues the work done in 
(D?Haro et al 2006). Our main proposed 
strategies are: the generation of automatic 
state proposals for defining the dialogue 
flow network, the automatic selection of 
slots to be requested using mixed-initiative, 
the semi-automatic generation of SQL 
statements, and the quick generation of the 
data model of the application and the con-
nection with the database fields. Subjective 
and objective evaluations demonstrate the 
advantages of using the accelerations and 
their high acceptance, both in our current 
proposals and in previous work. 
1 