
This paper presents an experimental
study that analyzes how conversational
agents activate human communication in
thought-evoking multi-party dialogues be-
tween multi-users and multi-agents. A
thought-evoking dialogue, which is a kind
of interaction in which agents act on user
willingness to provoke user thinking, has
the potential to stimulate multi-party in-
teraction. In this paper, we focus on
quiz-style multi-party dialogues between
two users and two agents as an example
of a thought-evoking multi-party dialogue.
The experiment results showed that the
presence of a peer agent significantly im-
proved user satisfaction and increased the
number of user utterances. We also found
that agent empathic expressions signifi-
cantly improved user satisfaction, raised
user ratings of a peer agent, and increased
user utterances. Our findings will be use-
ful for stimulating multi-party communi-
cation in various applications such as ed-
ucational agents and community facilita-
tors.
1 