
Historically, suicide risk assessment has re-
lied on question-and-answer type tools. These
tools, built on psychometric advances, are
widely used because of availability. Yet there
is no known tool based on biologic and cogni-
tive evidence. This absence often cause a vex-
ing clinical problem for clinicians who ques-
tion the value of the result as time passes. The
purpose of this paper is to describe one exper-
iment in a series of experiments to develop a
tool that combines Biological Markers (Bm)
with Thought Markers (Tm), and use machine
learning to compute a real-time index for as-
sessing the likelihood repeated suicide attempt
in the next six-months. For this study we fo-
cus using unsupervised machine learning to
distinguish between actual suicide notes and
newsgroups. This is important because it gives
us insight into how well these methods dis-
criminate between real notes and general con-
versation.
1 