
We present in this paper the development
of a specialized comparable corpora com-
pilation tool, for which quality would be
close to a manually compiled corpus. The
comparability is based on three levels: do-
main, topic and type of discourse. Domain
and topic can be filtered with the keywords
used through web search. But the detec-
tion of the type of discourse needs a wide
linguistic analysis. The first step of our
work is to automate the detection of the
type of discourse that can be found in a
scientific domain (science and popular sci-
ence) in French and Japanese languages.
First, a contrastive stylistic analysis of the
two types of discourse is done on both lan-
guages. This analysis leads to the creation
of a reusable, generic and robust typology.
Machine learning algorithms are then ap-
plied to the typology, using shallow pars-
ing. We obtain good results, with an av-
erage precision of 80% and an average re-
call of 70% that demonstrate the efficiency
of this typology. This classification tool
is then inserted in a corpus compilation
tool which is a text collection treatment
chain realized through IBM UIMA system.
Starting from two specialized web docu-
ments collection in French and Japanese,
this tool creates the corresponding corpus.
1 