
We address an issue of out-of-grammar
(OOG) utterances in spoken dialogue sys-
tems by generating help messages for
novice users. Help generation for OOG
utterances is a challenging problem be-
cause language understanding (LU) re-
sults based on automatic speech recogni-
tion (ASR) results for such utterances are
always erroneous as important words are
often misrecognized or missed from such
utterances. We first develop grammar ver-
ification for OOG utterances on the ba-
sis of a Weighted Finite-State Transducer
(WFST). It robustly identifies a grammar
rule that a user intends to utter, even when
some important words are missed from the
ASR result. We then adopt a ranking algo-
rithm, RankBoost, whose features include
the grammar verification results and the
utterance history representing the user?s
experience.
1 