 
 
 As interaction between speakers of different 
languages continues to increase, the ever-
present problem of language barriers must be 
overcome. For the same reason, automatic 
language translation (Machine Translation) has 
become an attractive area of research and 
development. Statistical Machine Translation 
(SMT) has been used for translation between 
many language pairs, the results of which have 
shown considerable success. The focus of this 
research is on the English/Persian language pair. 
This paper investigates the development and 
evaluation of the performance of a statistical 
machine translation system by building a 
baseline system using subtitles from Persian 
films. We present an overview of previous 
related work in English/Persian machine 
translation, and examine the available corpora 
for this language pair. We finally show the 
results of the experiments of our system using 
an in-house corpus and compare the results we 
obtained when building a language model with 
different sized monolingual corpora. Different 
automatic evaluation metrics like BLEU, NIST 
and IBM-BLEU were used to evaluate the 
performance of the system on half of the corpus 
built. Finally, we look at future work by 
outlining ways of getting highly accurate 
translations as fast as possible. 
 
1    