
A major challenge in statistical machine
translation is mitigating the word or-
der differences between source and tar-
get strings. While reordering and lexical
translation choices are often conducted in
tandem, source string permutation prior
to translation is attractive for studying re-
ordering using hierarchical and syntactic
structure. This work contributes an ap-
proach for learning source string permu-
tation via transfer of the source syntax
tree. We present a novel discriminative,
probabilistic tree transduction model, and
contribute a set of empirical upperbounds
on translation performance for English-
to-Dutch source string permutation under
sequence and parse tree constraints. Fi-
nally, the translation performance of our
learning model is shown to outperform the
state-of-the-art phrase-based system sig-
nificantly.
1 