
An approach to recognizing sentiment 
polarity in Chinese reviews based on 
topic sentiment sentences is presented.
Considering the features of Chinese re-
views, we firstly identify the topic of a 
review using an n-gram matching ap-
proach. To extract candidate topic senti-
ment sentences, we compute the seman-
tic similarity between a given sentence 
and the ascertained topic and meanwhile 
determine whether the sentence is sub-
jective. A certain number of these sen-
tences are then selected as representa-
tives according to their semantic simi-
larity value with relation to the topic. 
The average value of the representative 
topic sentiment sentences is calculated 
and taken as the sentiment polarity of a 
review. Experiment results show that the 
proposed method is feasible and can 
achieve relatively high precision.
1 