
Machine reading is a long-standing goal of AI
and NLP. In recent years, tremendous progress
has been made in developing machine learning
approaches for many of its subtasks such as
parsing, information extraction, and question
answering. However, existing end-to-end so-
lutions typically require substantial amount of
human efforts (e.g., labeled data and/or man-
ual engineering), and are not well poised for
Web-scale knowledge acquisition. In this pa-
per, we propose a unifying approach for ma-
chine reading by bootstrapping from the easi-
est extractable knowledge and conquering the
long tail via a self-supervised learning pro-
cess. This self-supervision is powered by joint
inference based on Markov logic, and is made
scalable by leveraging hierarchical structures
and coarse-to-fine inference. Researchers at
the University of Washington have taken the
first steps in this direction. Our existing work
explores the wide spectrum of this vision and
shows its promise.
1 