
Text normalization transforms words into a
base form so that terms from common equiv-
alent classes match. Traditionally, informa-
tion retrieval systems employ stemming tech-
niques to remove derivational affixes. Deplu-
ralization, the transformation of plurals into
singular forms, is also used as a low-level text
normalization technique to preserve more pre-
cise lexical semantics of text.
Experiment results suggest that the choice of
text normalization technique should be made
individually on each topic to enhance informa-
tion retrieval accuracy. This paper proposes a
hybrid approach, constructing a query-based
selection model to select the appropriate text
normalization technique (stemming, deplural-
ization, or not doing any text normalization).
The selection model utilized ambiguity prop-
erties extracted from queries to train a com-
posite of Support Vector Regression (SVR)
models to predict a text normalization tech-
nique that yields the highest Mean Average
Precision (MAP). Based on our study, such
a selection model holds promise in improving
retrieval accuracy.
1 