
This paper describes a new method for un-
supervised grammar induction based on
the automatic extraction of certain pat-
terns in the texts. Our starting hypoth-
esis is that there exist some classes of
words that function as separators, mark-
ing the beginning or the end of new con-
stituents. Among these separators we dis-
tinguish those which trigger new levels in
the parse tree. If we are able to detect these
separators we can follow a very simple
procedure to identify the constituents of a
sentence by taking the classes of words be-
tween separators. This paper is devoted to
describe the process that we have followed
to automatically identify the set of sepa-
rators from a corpus only annotated with
Part-of-Speech (POS) tags. The proposed
approach has allowed us to improve the re-
sults of previous proposals when parsing
sentences from the Wall Street Journal cor-
pus.
1 