
Automatic detection of linguistic negation
in free text is a critical need for many text
processing applications, including senti-
ment analysis. This paper presents a nega-
tion detection system based on a condi-
tional random field modeled using fea-
tures from an English dependency parser.
The scope of negation detection is limited
to explicit rather than implied negations
within single sentences. A new negation
corpus is presented that was constructed
for the domain of English product reviews
obtained from the open web, and the pro-
posed negation extraction system is eval-
uated against the reviews corpus as well
as the standard BioScope negation corpus,
achieving 80.0% and 75.5% F1 scores, re-
spectively. The impact of accurate nega-
tion detection on a state-of-the-art senti-
ment analysis system is also reported.
1 