
This paper presents ongoing work on applica-
tion of Information Extraction (IE) technology
to domain of Public Health, in a real-world
scenario. A central issue in IE is the quality
of the results. We present two novel points.
First, we distinguish the criteria for quality:
the objective criteria that measure correctness
of the system?s analysis in traditional terms
(F-measure, recall and precision), and, on the
other hand, subjective criteria that measure the
utility of the results to the end-user.
Second, to obtain measures of utility, we build
an environment that allows users to interact
with the system by rating the analyzed con-
tent. We then build and compare several clas-
sifiers that learn from the user?s responses to
predict the relevance scores for new events.
We conduct experiments with learning to pre-
dict relevance, and discuss the results and their
implications for text mining in the domain of
Public Health.
1 