
Modern Chinese Mandarin has gone 
through near a hundred years, it is very 
important to store its representative 
sample in digital form permanently. In 
this paper, we propose a Chinese Man-
darin Digital Multi-modal Corpus 
(CMDMC), which is a digital speech 
museum with diachronic, opened, cross-
media and sharable features. It has over 
3460 hours video and audio files with 
metadata tagging. The materials, which 
were generated by the authoritative 
speakers (e.g. announcers at TV or radio 
station) with normality, are required 
samples if we can get them. Based on 
this resource, we also intend to analyze 
the syntactic correlations of prosodic 
phrase in broadcasting news speech, and 
compare the phonetic and prosodic fea-
tures in movie dialogues among several 
same-name movies in different histori-
cal eras.
1 