 
Through the application of Chinese WordNet, 
the current study used the manipulation of 
visual field and the number of senses of the 
first character in Chinese disyllabic com-
pounds to investigate the representation and 
the hemispheric processing of related senses 
in nouns and verbs. In the previous study, 
Huang et al (2009) have found the ERP evi-
dence to indicate single entry representation 
for Chinese polysemy in the left hemisphere; 
however, in the right hemisphere, they found 
sense inhibition which may be due to (1) the 
nature of hemispheric processing in dealing 
with semantic ambiguity or (2) the semantic 
activation from the separate-entry representa-
tion for senses. To clarify these possibilities, 
the study used the word class judgment task 
with the attempt to push subjects in a deeper 
level of lexical processing. The results re-
vealed sense facilitation effect in the RH and 
suggested that in a deeper level, the RH had 
more possibility to observe the sense facilita-
tion due to different efficiency of cerebral 
hemispheres. 
1 