 
In this paper we explore two strategies to in-
corporate local morphosyntactic features in 
Hindi dependency parsing. These features are 
obtained using a shallow parser. We first ex-
plore which information provided by the shal-
low parser is most beneficial and show that 
local morphosyntactic features in the form of 
chunk type, head/non-head information, 
chunk boundary information, distance to the 
end of the chunk and suffix concatenation are 
very crucial in Hindi dependency parsing. We 
then investigate the best way to incorporate 
this information during dependency parsing. 
Further, we compare the results of various ex-
periments based on various criterions and do 
some error analysis. All the experiments were 
done with two data-driven parsers, MaltParser 
and MSTParser, on a part of multi-layered and 
multi-representational Hindi Treebank which 
is under development. This paper is also the 
first attempt at complete sentence level pars-
ing for Hindi. 
1 