
This paper presents a comparison of two
similar dialogue analysis tasks: segment-
ing real-life medical team meetings into
patient case discussions, and segment-
ing scenario-based meetings into topics.
In contrast to other methods which use
transcribed content and prosodic features
(such as pitch, loudness etc), the method
used in this comparison employs only the
duration of the prosodic units themselves
as the basis for dialogue representation. A
concept of Vocalisation Horizon (VH) al-
lows us to treat segmentation as a clas-
sification task where each instance to be
classified is represented by the duration
of a talk spurt, pause or speech overlap
event in the dialogue. We report on the re-
sults this method yielded in segmentation
of medical meetings, and on the implica-
tions of the results of further experiments
on a larger corpus, the Augmented Multi-
party Meeting corpus, to our ongoing ef-
forts to support data collection and infor-
mation retrieval in medical team meetings.
1 