
With the steadily increasing demand for 
high-quality translation, the localisation 
industry is constantly searching for tech-
nologies that would increase translator 
throughput, with the current focus on the 
use of high-quality Statistical Machine 
Translation (SMT) as a supplement to the 
established Translation Memory (TM) 
technology. In this paper we present a 
novel modular approach that utilises 
state-of-the-art sub-tree alignment to pick 
out pre-translated segments from a TM 
match and seed with them an SMT sys-
tem to produce a final translation. We 
show that the presented system can out-
perform pure SMT when a good TM 
match is found. It can also be used in a 
Computer-Aided Translation (CAT) envi-
ronment to present almost perfect transla-
tions to the human user with markup 
highlighting the segments of the transla-
tion that need to be checked manually for 
correctness.
1. 