
We consider the task of automatically
extracting post-translational modification
events from biomedical scientific publica-
tions. Building on the success of event
extraction for phosphorylation events in
the BioNLP?09 shared task, we extend the
event annotation approach to four major
new post-transitional modification event
types. We present a new targeted corpus of
157 PubMed abstracts annotated for over
1000 proteins and 400 post-translational
modification events identifying the modi-
fied proteins and sites. Experiments with
a state-of-the-art event extraction system
show that the events can be extracted with
52% precision and 36% recall (42% F-
score), suggesting remaining challenges
in the extraction of the events. The an-
notated corpus is freely available in the
BioNLP?09 shared task format at the GE-
NIA project homepage.1
1 