
In this paper, we investigate generating
a set of query-focused summaries from
search results. Since there may be many
topics related to a given query in the
search results, in order to summarize
these results, they should first be clas-
sified into topics, and then each topic
should be summarized individually. In
this summarization process, two types of
redundancies need to be reduced. First,
each topic summary should not contain
any redundancy (we refer to this prob-
lem as redundancy within a summary).
Second, a topic summary should not be
similar to any other topic summary (we
refer to this problem as redundancy be-
tween summaries). In this paper, we
focus on the document clustering pro-
cess and the reduction of redundancy be-
tween summaries in the summarization
process. We also propose a method using
PLSI to summarize search results. Eval-
uation results confirm that our method
performs well in classifying search re-
sults and reducing the redundancy be-
tween summaries.
1 