 
In the area of large French speech corpora, 
there is a demonstrated need for a common 
prosodic notation system allowing for easy 
data exchange, comparison, and automatic an-
notation. The major questions are: (1) how to 
develop a single simple scheme of prosodic 
transcription which could form the basis of 
guidelines for non-expert manual annotation 
(NEMA), used for linguistic teaching and re-
search; (2)  based on this NEMA, how to es-
tablish reference prosodic corpora (RPC) for 
different discourse genres (Cresti and Mo-
neglia, 2005); (3) how to use the RPC to de-
velop corpus-based learning methods for 
automatic prosodic labelling in spontaneous 
speech (Buhman et al, 2002; Tamburini and 
Caini 2005, Avanzi, et al 2010). This paper 
presents two pilot experiments conducted with 
a consortium of 15 French experts in prosody 
in order to provide a prosodic transcription 
framework (transcription methodology and 
transcription reliability measures) and to es-
tablish reference prosodic corpora in French. 
1 