 
Chinese word segmentation is the initial 
step for Chinese information processing. 
The performance of Chinese word seg-
mentation has been greatly improved by 
character-based approaches in recent 
years. This approach treats Chinese 
word segmentation as a character-word-
position-tagging problem. With the help 
of powerful sequence tagging model, 
character-based method quickly rose as 
a mainstream technique in this field. 
This paper presents our segmentation 
system for evaluation of CIPS-SIGHAN 
2010 in which method combining char-
acter-based and subsequence-based tag-
ging is applied and conditional random 
fields (CRFs) is taken as sequence tag-
ging model. We evaluated our system in 
closed and open tracks on four corpuses, 
namely Literary, Computer science, 
Medicine and Finance, and reported our 
evaluation results.  
1 