
In this work we present results from using
Amazon?s Mechanical Turk (MTurk) to an-
notate translation lexicons between English
and a large set of less commonly used lan-
guages. We generate candidate translations for
100 English words in each of 42 foreign lan-
guages using Wikipedia and a lexicon induc-
tion framework. We evaluate the MTurk an-
notations by using positive and negative con-
trol candidate translations. Additionally, we
evaluate the annotations by adding pairs to our
seed dictionaries, providing a feedback loop
into the induction system. MTurk workers are
more successful in annotating some languages
than others and are not evenly distributed
around the world or among the world?s lan-
guages. However, in general, we find that
MTurk is a valuable resource for gathering
cheap and simple annotations for most of the
languages that we explored, and these anno-
tations provide useful feedback in building a
larger, more accurate lexicon.
1 