 
Textual emotion recognition has gained a lot of 
attention recent years; it is however less devel-
oped due to the complexity nature of emotion. In 
this paper, we start with the discussion of a num-
ber of fundamental yet unresolved issues concern-
ing emotion, which includes its definition, 
representation and technology. We then propose 
an alternative solution for emotion recognition 
taking into account of emotion causes. Two pilot 
experiments are done to justify our proposal. The 
first experiment explores the impact of emotion 
recognition. It shows that the context contains rich 
and crucial information that effectively help emo-
tion recognition. The other experiment examines 
emotion cause events in the context. We find that 
most emotions are expressed with the presence of 
causes. The experiments prove that emotion cause 
serves as an important cue for emotion recognition. 
We suggest that the combination of both emotion 
study and event analysis would be a fruitful direc-
tion for deep emotion processing. 
1 