
We present our Multi Point Of vieW Eval-
uation Refinement Studio (MPOWERS),
an application framework for Spoken Di-
alogue System evaluation that implements
design conventions in a user-friendly in-
terface. It ensures that all evaluator-users
manipulate a unique shared corpus of data
with a shared set of parameters to de-
sign and retrieve their evaluations. It
therefore answers both the need for con-
vergence among the evaluation practices
and the consideration of several analyti-
cal points of view addressed by the evalu-
ators involved in Spoken Dialogue System
projects. After introducing the system ar-
chitecture, we argue the solution?s added
value in supporting a both data-driven and
goal-driven process. We conclude with fu-
ture works and perspectives of improve-
ment upheld by human processes.
1 