
In this paper we investigate a new source of
information for syntactic category acquisition:
sentence type (question, declarative, impera-
tive). Sentence type correlates strongly with
intonation patterns in most languages; we hy-
pothesize that these intonation patterns are a
valuable signal to a language learner, indicat-
ing different syntactic patterns. To test this hy-
pothesis, we train a Bayesian Hidden Markov
Model (and variants) on child-directed speech.
We first show that simply training a separate
model for each sentence type decreases perfor-
mance due to sparse data. As an alternative, we
propose two new models based on the BHMM
in which sentence type is an observed variable
which influences either emission or transition
probabilities. Both models outperform a stan-
dard BHMM on data from English, Cantonese,
and Dutch. This suggests that sentence type
information available from intonational cues
may be helpful for syntactic acquisition cross-
linguistically.
1 