
Topological and dynamic features of com-
plex networks have proven to be suitable
for capturing text characteristics in recent
years, with various applications in natu-
ral language processing. In this article we
show that texts with positive and negative
opinions can be distinguished from each
other when represented as complex net-
works. The distinction was possible by
obtaining several metrics of the networks,
including the in-degree, out-degree, short-
est paths, clustering coefficient, between-
ness and global efficiency. For visu-
alization, the obtained multidimensional
dataset was projected into a 2-dimensional
space with the canonical variable analysis.
The distinction was quantified using ma-
chine learning algorithms, which allowed
an recall of 70% in the automatic dis-
crimination for the negative opinions, even
without attempts to optimize the pattern
recognition process.
1 