 
The discipline where sentiment/ opi-
nion/ emotion has been identified and 
classified in human written text is well 
known as sentiment analysis. A typical 
computational approach to sentiment 
analysis starts with prior polarity lex-
icons where entries are tagged with 
their prior out of context polarity as 
human beings perceive using their 
cognitive knowledge. Till date, all re-
search efforts found in sentiment lex-
icon literature deal mostly with English 
texts. In this article, we propose mul-
tiple computational techniques like, 
WordNet based, dictionary based, cor-
pus based or generative approaches for 
generating SentiWordNet(s) for Indian 
languages. Currently, SentiWordNet(s) 
are being developed for three Indian 
languages: Bengali, Hindi and Telugu. 
An online intuitive game has been de-
veloped to create and validate the de-
veloped SentiWordNet(s) by involving 
Internet population. A number of au-
tomatic, semi-automatic and manual 
validations and evaluation methodolo-
gies have been adopted to measure the 
coverage and credibility of the devel-
oped SentiWordNet(s). 
1 