
The extraction of bio-molecular events
from text is an important task for a number
of domain applications such as pathway
construction. Several syntactic parsers
have been used in Biomedical Natural
Language Processing (BioNLP) applica-
tions, and the BioNLP 2009 Shared Task
results suggest that incorporation of syn-
tactic analysis is important to achieving
state-of-the-art performance. Direct com-
parison of parsers is complicated by to dif-
ferences in the such as the division be-
tween phrase structure- and dependency-
based analyses and the variety of output
formats, structures and representations ap-
plied. In this paper, we present a task-
oriented comparison of five parsers, mea-
suring their contribution to bio-molecular
event extraction using a state-of-the-art
event extraction system. The results show
that the parsers with domain models using
dependency formats provide very similar
performance, and that an ensemble of dif-
ferent parsers in different formats can im-
prove the event extraction system.
1 