
The trend toward the growing multi-
linguality of the Internet requires text
summarization techniques that work
equally well in multiple languages. Only
some of the automated summarization
methods proposed in the literature, how-
ever, can be defined as ?language-
independent?, as they are not based on
any morphological analysis of the sum-
marized text. In this paper, we per-
form an in-depth comparative analysis of
language-independent sentence scoring
methods for extractive single-document
summarization. We evaluate 15 pub-
lished summarization methods proposed
in the literature and 16 methods intro-
duced in (Litvak et al, 2010). The eval-
uation is performed on English and He-
brew corpora. The results suggest that
the performance ranking of the com-
pared methods is quite similar in both
languages. The top ten bilingual scoring
methods include six methods introduced
in (Litvak et al, 2010).
1 