 
Achieving guideline-based targets in patients 
with diabetes is crucial for improving clinical 
outcomes and preventing long-term complica-
tions. Using electronic heath records (EHRs) to 
identify high-risk patients for further interven-
tion by screening large populations is limited be-
cause many EHRs store clinical information as 
dictated and transcribed free text notes that are 
not amenable to statistical analysis.  This paper 
presents the process of extracting elements 
needed for generating a diabetes report card from 
free text notes written in English. Numerical 
measurements, representing lab values and phys-
ical examinations results are extracted from free 
text documents and then stored in a structured 
database. Extracting diagnosis information and 
medication lists are work in progress. The com-
plete dataset for this project is comprised of 
81,932 documents from 30,459 patients collected 
over a period of 5 years. The patient population 
is considered high risk for diabetes as they have 
existing cardiovascular complications. Experi-
mental results validate our method, demonstrat-
ing high precision (88.8-100%).    
 
1 