 
Character-based tagging method has 
achieved great success in Chinese Word 
Segmentation (CWS). This paper 
proposes a new approach to improve the 
CWS tagging accuracy by structured 
support vector machine (SVM) 
utilization of unlabeled text corpus. First, 
character N-grams in unlabeled text 
corpus are mapped into low-dimensional 
space by adopting SOM algorithm. Then 
new features extracted from these maps 
and another kind of feature based on 
entropy for each N-gram are integrated 
into the structured SVM methods for 
CWS. We took part in two tracks of the 
Word Segmentation for Simplified 
Chinese Text in bakeoff-2010: Closed 
track and Open track. The test corpora 
cover four domains: Literature, 
Computer Science, Medicine and 
Finance. Our system achieved good 
performance, especially in the open 
track on the domain of medicine, our 
system got the highest score among 18 
systems. 
1 