
Building training data is labor-intensive
and presents a major obstacle to advanc-
ing machine learning technologies such as
machine translators, named entity recog-
nizers (NER), part-of-speech taggers, etc.
Training data are often specialized for a
particular language or Natural Language
Processing (NLP) task. Knowledge cap-
tured by a specific set of training data is
not easily transferable, even to the same
NLP task in another language. Emerging
technologies, such as social networks and
serious games, offer a unique opportunity
to change how we construct training data.
While collaborative games have been used
in information retrieval, it is an open is-
sue whether users can contribute accurate
annotations in a collaborative game con-
text for a problem that requires an exact
answer, such as games that would create
named entity recognition training data. We
present PackPlay, a collaborative game
framework that empirically shows players?
ability to mimic annotation accuracy and
thoroughness seen in gold standard anno-
tated corpora.
1 