
Clustering is a central technique in NLP.
Consequently, clustering evaluation is of
great importance. Many clustering algo-
rithms are evaluated by their success in
tagging corpus tokens. In this paper we
discuss type level evaluation, which re-
flects class membership only and is inde-
pendent of the token statistics of a partic-
ular reference corpus. Type level evalua-
tion casts light on the merits of algorithms,
and for some applications is a more natural
measure of the algorithm?s quality.
We propose new type level evaluation
measures that, contrary to existing mea-
sures, are applicable when items are pol-
ysemous, the common case in NLP. We
demonstrate the benefits of our measures
using a detailed case study, POS induc-
tion. We experiment with seven leading
algorithms, obtaining useful insights and
showing that token and type level mea-
sures can weakly or even negatively corre-
late, which underscores the fact that these
two approaches reveal different aspects of
clustering quality.
1 