
Even though considerable attention has been
given to semantic orientation of words and the
creation of large polarity lexicons, research
in emotion analysis has had to rely on lim-
ited and small emotion lexicons. In this pa-
per, we show how we create a high-quality,
moderate-sized emotion lexicon using Me-
chanical Turk. In addition to questions about
emotions evoked by terms, we show how the
inclusion of a word choice question can dis-
courage malicious data entry, help identify in-
stances where the annotator may not be famil-
iar with the target term (allowing us to reject
such annotations), and help obtain annotations
at sense level (rather than at word level). We
perform an extensive analysis of the annota-
tions to better understand the distribution of
emotions evoked by terms of different parts of
speech. We identify which emotions tend to be
evoked simultaneously by the same term and
show that certain emotions indeed go hand in
hand.
1 