 
Novice writers face significant challenges as 
they learn to master the broad range of skills 
that contribute to composition. Novice and 
expert writers differ considerably, and devis-
ing effective composition support tools for 
novice writers requires a clear understanding 
of the process and products of writing. This 
paper reports on a study conducted with more 
than one hundred middle grade students inter-
acting with a narrative composition support 
environment. The texts are found to pose im-
portant challenges for state-of-the-art natural 
language processing techniques.  Furthermore, 
the study investigates the language usage of 
middle grade students, the cohesion and co-
herence of the resulting texts, and the relation-
ship between students? language arts skills 
and their writing processes.  The findings sug-
gest that composition support environments 
require robust NLP tools that can account for 
the variations in students? writing in order to 
effectively support each phase of the writing 
process. 
1 