 
 
We develop a grammar for Urdu in 
Grammatical Framework (GF). GF is a 
programming language for defining 
multilingual grammar applications. GF 
resource grammar library currently 
supports 16 languages. These grammars 
follow an Interlingua approach and 
consist of morphology and syntax 
modules that cover a wide range of 
features of a language. In this paper we 
explore different syntactic features of the 
Urdu language, and show how to fit them 
in the multilingual framework of GF. We 
also discuss how we cover some of the 
distinguishing features of Urdu such as, 
ergativity in verb agreement (see Sec 
4.2).  The main purpose of GF resource 
grammar library is to provide an easy 
way to write natural language 
applications without knowing the details 
of syntax, morphology and lexicon. To 
demonstrate it, we use Urdu resource 
grammar to add support for Urdu in the 
work reported in (Angelov and Ranta, 
2010) which is an implementation of 
Attempto (Attempto 2008) in GF.  
 
1. 