 
Many questions submitted to Collaborative 
Question Answering (CQA) sites have been 
answered before. We propose an approach to 
automatically generating an answer to such 
questions based on automatically learning to 
identify ?equivalent? questions. Our main 
contribution is an unsupervised method for 
automatically learning question equivalence 
patterns from CQA archive data. These pat-
terns can be used to match new questions to 
their equivalents that have been answered be-
fore, and thereby help suggest answers auto-
matically. We experimented with our method 
approach over a large collection of more than 
200,000 real questions drawn from the Yahoo! 
Answers archive, automatically acquiring 
over 300 groups of question equivalence pat-
terns. These patterns allow our method to ob-
tain over 66% precision on automatically 
suggesting answers to new questions, signifi-
cantly outperforming conventional baseline 
approaches to question matching.  
1 