
This paper applies finite state technologies to
verify the typological validity of Turbid
Spreading, a theory of vowel harmony in Op-
timality Theory (OT) (Prince & Smolensky,
1993/2004). Previous analyses of vowel har-
mony in OT have been prone to typological
inconsistencies, predicting grammars that do
not occur in natural language (Wilson, 2003).
However, attempts to eliminate typological
pathologies relying on hand-made inputs and
candidate sets have been shown to be highly
prone to error (Wilson, 2005). Using a modi-
fied version of the Contenders Algorithm
(Riggle, 2004b), we verify that Turbid
Spreading makes typologically valid predic-
tions about the types of harmony processes
that may appear in natural language. This
modification of the Contenders Algorithm to
include complex spreading interactions and
intermediate representations demonstrates the
utility of computational methods for verifying
the typological predictions of complex
phonological theories.
1 