
Spoken dialogue systems typically do not
manage the communication channel, instead
using fixed values for such features as the
amplitude and speaking rate. Yet, the qual-
ity of a dialogue can be compromised if the
user has difficulty understanding the system.
In this proof-of-concept research, we explore
using reinforcement learning (RL) to create
policies that manage the communication chan-
nel to meet the needs of diverse users. To-
wards this end, we first formalize a prelimi-
nary communication channel model, in which
users provide explicit feedback regarding is-
sues with the communication channel, and the
system implicitly alters its amplitude to ac-
commodate the user?s optimal volume. Sec-
ond, we explore whether RL is an appropri-
ate tool for creating communication channel
management strategies, comparing two differ-
ent hand-crafted policies to policies trained
using both a dialogue-length and a novel an-
noyance cost. The learned policies performed
better than hand-crafted policies, with those
trained using the annoyance cost learning an
equitable tradeoff between users with differ-
ing needs and also learning to balance finding
a user?s optimal amplitude against dialogue-
length. These results suggest that RL can be
used to create effective communication chan-
nel management policies for diverse users.
Index Terms: communication channel, spoken di-
alogue systems, reinforcement learning, amplitude,
diverse users
1 