
This paper illustrates a way of using para-
phrasal interpretation of English nominal
compound for translating them into Hindi.
Input Nominal compound is first para-
phrased automatically with the 8 preposi-
tions as proposed by Lauer (1995) for the
task. English prepositions have one-to-one
mapping to post-position in Hindi. The
English paraphrases are then translated
into Hindi using the mapping schema. We
have got an accuracy of 71% over a set of
gold data of 250 Nominal Compound. The
translation-strategy is motivated by the
following observation: It is only 50% of
the cases that English nominal compound
is translated into nominal compound in
Hindi. In other cases, they are translated
into varied syntactic constructs. Among
them the most frequent construction type
is ?Modifier + Postposition + Head?. The
translation module also attempts to deter-
mine when a compound is translated using
paraphrase and when it is translated into a
Nominal compound.
1 