 
Emotion, the private state of a human 
entity, is becoming an important topic 
in Natural Language Processing (NLP) 
with increasing use of search engines. 
The present task aims to manually an-
notate the sentences in a web based 
Bengali blog corpus with the emotional 
components such as emotional expres-
sion (word/phrase), intensity, associ-
ated holder and topic(s). Ekman?s six 
emotion classes (anger, disgust, fear, 
happy, sad and surprise) along with 
three types of intensities (high, general 
and low) are considered for the sen-
tence level annotation. Presence of dis-
course markers, punctuation marks, 
negations, conjuncts, reduplication, 
rhetoric knowledge and especially 
emoticons play the contributory roles 
in the annotation process. Different 
types of fixed and relaxed strategies 
have been employed to measure the 
agreement of the sentential emotions, 
intensities, emotional holders and top-
ics respectively. Experimental results 
for each emotion class at word level on 
a small set of the whole corpus have 
been found satisfactory.    
1 