 
A semantic feature for statistical machine trans-
lation, based on Latent Semantic Indexing, is 
proposed and evaluated. The objective of the 
proposed feature is to account for the degree of 
similarity between a given input sentence and 
each individual sentence in the training dataset. 
This similarity is computed in a reduced vector-
space constructed by means of the Latent Se-
mantic Indexing decomposition. The computed 
similarity values are used as an additional fea-
ture in the log-linear model combination ap-
proach to statistical machine translation. In our 
implementation, the proposed feature is dy-
namically adjusted for each translation unit in 
the translation table according to the current in-
put sentence to be translated. This model aims 
at favoring those translation units that were ex-
tracted from training sentences that are seman-
tically related to the current input sentence 
being translated. Experimental results on a 
Spanish-to-English translation task on the Bible 
corpus demonstrate a significant improvement 
on translation quality with respect to a baseline 
system. 
1 