
In this study we investigate the merits of
fast approximate string matching to address
challenges relating to spelling variants and to
utilise large-scale lexical resources for seman-
tic class disambiguation. We integrate string
matching results into machine learning-based
disambiguation through the use of a novel set
of features that represent the distance of a
given textual span to the closest match in each
of a collection of lexical resources. We col-
lect lexical resources for a multitude of se-
mantic categories from a variety of biomedi-
cal domain sources. The combined resources,
containing more than twenty million lexical
items, are queried using a recently proposed
fast and efficient approximate string match-
ing algorithm that allows us to query large
resources without severely impacting system
performance. We evaluate our results on six
corpora representing a variety of disambigua-
tion tasks. While the integration of approxi-
mate string matching features is shown to sub-
stantially improve performance on one corpus,
results are modest or negative for others. We
suggest possible explanations and future re-
search directions. Our lexical resources and
implementation are made freely available for
research purposes at: http://github.com/ninjin/
simsem
1 