
Reordering is a major challenge for machine
translation between distant languages. Recent
work has shown that evaluation metrics that
explicitly account for target language word or-
der correlate better with human judgments of
translation quality. Here we present a simple
framework for evaluating word order indepen-
dently of lexical choice by comparing the sys-
tem?s reordering of a source sentence to ref-
erence reordering data generated from manu-
ally word-aligned translations. When used to
evaluate a system that performs reordering as
a preprocessing step our framework allows the
parser and reordering rules to be evaluated ex-
tremely quickly without time-consuming end-
to-end machine translation experiments. A
novelty of our approach is that the translations
used to generate the reordering reference data
are generated in an alignment-oriented fash-
ion. We show that how the alignments are
generated can significantly effect the robust-
ness of the evaluation. We also outline some
ways in which this framework has allowed our
group to analyze reordering errors for English
to Japanese machine translation.
1 