
We participated in the BioNLP Shared Task 2011,
addressing the GENIA event extraction (GE) and
the Epigenetics and Post-translational Modifica-
tions (EPI) tasks. A graph-based approach is
employed to automatically learn rules for detect-
ing biological events in the life-science literature.
The event rules are learned by identifying the
key contextual dependencies from full syntactic
parsing of annotated text. Event recognition is
performed by searching for an isomorphism be-
tween event rules and the dependency graphs of
sentences in the input texts. While we explored
methods such as performance-based rule rank-
ing to improve precision, we merged rules across
multiple event types in order to increase recall.
We achieved a 41.13% F-score in detecting events
of nine types in the Task 1 of the GE task, and a
52.67% F-score in identifying events across fif-
teen types in the core task of the EPI task. Our
performance on both tasks is comparable to the
state-of-the-art systems. Our approach does not
require any external domain-specific resources.
The consistent performance on the two tasks sup-
ports the claim that the method generalizes well
to extract events from different domains where
training data is available.
1 