
With the evolution of online communication
methods, conversations are increasingly han-
dled via email, internet forums and other such
methods. In this paper, we attempt to model
lexical information in a context sensitive man-
ner, encoding our belief that the use of lan-
guage depends on the participants in the con-
versation. We model the discourse as a com-
bination of the speaker, the addressee and
other participants in the conversation as well
as a context specific language model. In or-
der to do this, we introduce a novel method
based on an HMM with an exponential state
space to capture speaker-addressee context.
We also study the performance of topic model-
ing frameworks in conversational settings. We
evaluate the models on the tasks of identify-
ing the set of people present in any conver-
sation, as well as identifying the speaker for
every utterance in the conversation, and they
show significant improvement over the base-
line models.
1 