
We describe the Stanford entry to the BioNLP
2011 shared task on biomolecular event ex-
traction (Kim et al, 2011a). Our framework is
based on the observation that event structures
bear a close relation to dependency graphs.
We show that if biomolecular events are cast
as these pseudosyntactic structures, standard
parsing tools (maximum-spanning tree parsers
and parse rerankers) can be applied to per-
form event extraction with minimum domain-
specific tuning. The vast majority of our
domain-specific knowledge comes from the
conversion to and from dependency graphs.
Our system performed competitively, obtain-
ing 3rd place in the Infectious Diseases track
(50.6% f-score), 5th place in Epigenetics and
Post-translational Modifications (31.2%), and
7th place in Genia (50.0%). Additionally, this
system was part of the combined system in
Riedel et al (2011) to produce the highest
scoring system in three out of the four event
extraction tasks.
1 