 
We describe the system from the Natural 
Language Processing group at Microsoft 
Research for the BioNLP 2011 Shared 
Task. The task focuses on event extraction, 
identifying structured and potentially 
nested events from unannotated text. Our 
approach follows a pipeline, first 
decorating text with syntactic information, 
then identifying the trigger words of 
complex events, and finally identifying the 
arguments of those events. The resulting 
system depends heavily on lexical and 
syntactic features. Therefore, we explored 
methods of maintaining ambiguities and 
improving the syntactic representations, 
making the lexical information less brittle 
through clustering, and of exploring novel 
feature combinations and feature reduction. 
The system ranked 4th in the GENIA task 
with an F-measure of 51.5%, and 3rd in the 
EPI task with an F-measure of 64.9%. 
1 