
The CoNLL-2011 shared task involved pre-
dicting coreference using OntoNotes data. Re-
sources in this field have tended to be lim-
ited to noun phrase coreference, often on a
restricted set of entities, such as ACE enti-
ties. OntoNotes provides a large-scale corpus
of general anaphoric coreference not restricted
to noun phrases or to a specified set of en-
tity types. OntoNotes also provides additional
layers of integrated annotation, capturing ad-
ditional shallow semantic structure. This pa-
per briefly describes the OntoNotes annota-
tion (coreference and other layers) and then
describes the parameters of the shared task
including the format, pre-processing informa-
tion, and evaluation criteria, and presents and
discusses the results achieved by the partic-
ipating systems. Having a standard test set
and evaluation parameters, all based on a new
resource that provides multiple integrated an-
notation layers (parses, semantic roles, word
senses, named entities and coreference) that
could support joint models, should help to en-
ergize ongoing research in the task of entity
and event coreference.
1 