
This paper addresses the problem of summa-
rizing decisions in spoken meetings: our goal
is to produce a concise decision abstract for
each meeting decision. We explore and com-
pare token-level and dialogue act-level au-
tomatic summarization methods using both
unsupervised and supervised learning frame-
works. In the supervised summarization set-
ting, and given true clusterings of decision-
related utterances, we find that token-level
summaries that employ discourse context can
approach an upper bound for decision ab-
stracts derived directly from dialogue acts.
In the unsupervised summarization setting,we
find that summaries based on unsupervised
partitioning of decision-related utterances per-
form comparably to those based on partitions
generated using supervised techniques (0.22
ROUGE-F1 using LDA-based topic models
vs. 0.23 using SVMs).
1 