
While the study of the connection between
discourse patterns and personal identification
is decades old, the study of these patterns us-
ing language technologies is relatively recent.
In that more recent tradition we frame author
age prediction from text as a regression prob-
lem. We explore the same task using three
very different genres of data simultaneously:
blogs, telephone conversations, and online fo-
rum posts. We employ a technique from do-
main adaptation that allows us to train a joint
model involving all three corpora together as
well as separately and analyze differences in
predictive features across joint and corpus-
specific aspects of the model. Effective fea-
tures include both stylistic ones (such as POS
patterns) as well as content oriented ones. Us-
ing a linear regression model based on shallow
text features, we obtain correlations up to 0.74
and mean absolute errors between 4.1 and 6.8
years.
1 