
To increase the model coverage, source-
language paraphrases have been utilized to
boost SMT system performance. Previous
work showed that word lattices constructed
from paraphrases are able to reduce out-of-
vocabulary words and to express inputs in
different ways for better translation quality.
However, such a word-lattice-based method
suffers from two problems: 1) path dupli-
cations in word lattices decrease the capac-
ities for potential paraphrases; 2) lattice de-
coding in SMT dramatically increases the
search space and results in poor time effi-
ciency. Therefore, in this paper, we adopt
word confusion networks as the input struc-
ture to carry source-language paraphrase in-
formation. Similar to previous work, we use
word lattices to build word confusion net-
works for merging of duplicated paths and
faster decoding. Experiments are carried out
on small-, medium- and large-scale English?
Chinese translation tasks, and we show that
compared with the word-lattice-based method,
the decoding time on three tasks is reduced
significantly (up to 79%) while comparable
translation quality is obtained on the large-
scale task.
1 