
Recent solutions for sentiment analysis have
relied on feature selection methods ranging
from lexicon-based approaches where the set
of features are generated by humans, to ap-
proaches that use general statistical measures
where features are selected solely on empiri-
cal evidence. The advantage of statistical ap-
proaches is that they are fully automatic, how-
ever, they often fail to separate features that
carry sentiment from those that do not. In this
paper we propose a set of new feature selec-
tion schemes that use a Content and Syntax
model to automatically learn a set of features
in a review document by separating the enti-
ties that are being reviewed from the subjec-
tive expressions that describe those entities in
terms of polarities. By focusing only on the
subjective expressions and ignoring the enti-
ties, we can choose more salient features for
document-level sentiment analysis. The re-
sults obtained from using these features in a
maximum entropy classifier are competitive
with the state-of-the-art machine learning ap-
proaches.
1 