
This paper provides a first assessment of a sta-
tistical dialog system in public use. In our di-
alog system there are four main recognition
tasks, or slots ? bus route names, bus-stop lo-
cations, dates, and times. Whereas a conven-
tional system tracks a single value for each slot
? i.e., the speech recognizer?s top hypothesis
? our statistical system tracks a distribution
of many possible values over each slot. Past
work in lab studies has showed that this distri-
bution improves robustness to speech recog-
nition errors; but to our surprise, we found
the distribution yielded an increase in accu-
racy for only two of the four slots, and actu-
ally decreased accuracy in the other two. In
this paper, we identify root causes for these
differences in performance, including intrin-
sic properties of N-best lists, parameter set-
tings, and the quality of statistical models. We
synthesize our findings into a set of guidelines
which aim to assist researchers and practition-
ers employing statistical techniques in future
dialog systems.
1 