
The unsupervised Data Oriented Parsing
(uDOP) approach has been repeatedly re-
ported to achieve state of the art perfor-
mance in experiments on parsing of dif-
ferent corpora. At the same time the ap-
proach is demanding both in computation
time and memory. This paper describes an
approach which decreases these demands.
First the problem is translated into the
generation of probabilistic bottom up tree
automata (pBTA). Then it is explained
how solving two standard problems for
these automata results in a reduction in
the size of the grammar. The reduction of
the grammar size by using efficient algo-
rithms for pBTAs is the main contribution
of this paper. Experiments suggest that
this leads to a reduction in grammar size
by a factor of 2. This paper also suggests
some extensions of the original uDOP al-
gorithm that are made possible or aided by
the use of tree automata.
1 