
BiasML is a novel annotation scheme with
the purpose of identifying the presence as
well as nuances of biased language within
the subset of Wikipedia articles dedicated
to service providers. Whereas Wikipedia
currently uses only manual flagging to de-
tect possible bias, our scheme provides
a foundation for the automating of bias
flagging by improving upon the methodol-
ogy of annotation schemes in classic sen-
timent analysis. We also address chal-
lenges unique to the task of identifying
biased writing within the specific context
of Wikipedia?s neutrality policy. We per-
form a detailed analysis of inter-annotator
agreement, which shows that although the
agreement scores for intra-sentential tags
were relatively low, the agreement scores
on the sentence and entry levels were
encouraging (74.8% and 66.7%, respec-
tively). Based on an analysis of our first
implementation of our scheme, we suggest
possible improvements to our guidelines, in
hope that further rounds of annotation af-
ter incorporating them could provide ap-
propriate data for use within a machine
learning framework for automated detec-
tion of bias within Wikipedia.
1 