 
One of the key issues in both natural lan-
guage understanding and generation is the 
appropriate processing of Multiword Ex-
pressions (MWEs). MWE can be defined 
as a semantic issue of a phrase where the 
meaning of the phrase may not be obtained 
from its constituents in a straightforward 
manner. This paper presents an approach of 
identifying bigram noun-noun MWEs from 
a medium-size Bengali corpus by cluster-
ing the semantically related nouns and in-
corporating a vector space model for 
similarity measurement. Additional inclu-
sion of the English WordNet::Similarity 
module also improves the results consider-
ably. The present approach also contributes 
to locate clusters of the synonymous noun 
words present in a document. Experimental 
results draw a satisfactory conclusion after 
analyzing the Precision, Recall and F-score 
values.  
1 