
In comparative genomics, functional annota-
tions are transferred from one organism to an-
other relying on sequence similarity. With
more than 20 million citations in PubMed, text
mining provides the ideal tool for generating
additional large-scale homology-based predic-
tions. To this end, we have refined a recent
dataset of biomolecular events extracted from
text, and integrated these predictions with
records from public gene databases. Account-
ing for lexical variation of gene symbols, we
have implemented a disambiguation algorithm
that uniquely links the arguments of 11.2 mil-
lion biomolecular events to well-defined gene
families, providing interesting opportunities
for query expansion and hypothesis genera-
tion. The resulting MySQL database, includ-
ing all 19.2 million original events as well
as their homology-based variants, is publicly
available at http://bionlp.utu.fi/.
1 