
One of the reasons for which the resolution
of coreferences has remained a challenging
information extraction task, especially in the
biomedical domain, is the lack of training
data in the form of annotated corpora. In or-
der to address this issue, we developed the
HANAPIN corpus. It consists of full-text ar-
ticles from biochemistry literature, covering
entities of several semantic types: chemical
compounds, drug targets (e.g., proteins, en-
zymes, cell lines, pathogens), diseases, or-
ganisms and drug effects. All of the co-
referring expressions pertaining to these se-
mantic types were annotated based on the an-
notation scheme that we developed. We ob-
served four general types of coreferences in
the corpus: sortal, pronominal, abbreviation
and numerical. Using the MASI distance
metric, we obtained 84% in computing the
inter-annotator agreement in terms of Krip-
pendorff?s alpha. Consisting of 20 full-text,
open-access articles, the corpus will enable
other researchers to use it as a resource for
their own coreference resolution methodolo-
gies.
1 