
We present a novel scheme of spoken dialogue
systems which uses the up-to-date informa-
tion on the web. The scheme is based on in-
formation extraction which is defined by the
predicate-argument (P-A) structure and real-
ized by semantic parsing. Based on the in-
formation structure, the dialogue system can
perform question answering and also proac-
tive information presentation. Feasibility of
this scheme is demonstrated with experiments
using a domain of baseball news. In order to
automatically select useful domain-dependent
P-A templates, statistical measures are intro-
duced, resulting to a completely unsupervised
learning of the information structure given a
corpus. Similarity measures of P-A structures
are also introduced to select relevant infor-
mation. An experimental evaluation shows
that the proposed system can make more rel-
evant responses compared with the conven-
tional ?bag-of-words? scheme.
1 