
This paper contrasts the content and form
of objective versus subjective texts. A col-
lection of on-line newspaper news items
serve as objective texts, while parliamen-
tary speeches (debates) and blog posts form
the basis of our subjective texts, all in
Portuguese. The aim is to provide gen-
eral linguistic patterns as used in objec-
tive written media and subjective speeches
and blog posts, to help construct domain-
independent templates for information ex-
traction and opinion mining. Our hybrid
approach combines statistical data along
with linguistic knowledge to filter out ir-
relevant patterns. As resources for subjec-
tive classification are still limited for Por-
tuguese, we use a parallel corpus and tools
developed for English to build our sub-
jective spoken corpus, through annotations
produced for English projected onto a par-
allel corpus in Portuguese. A measure for
the saliency of n-grams is used to extract
relevant linguistic patterns deemed ?objec-
tive? and ?subjective?. Perhaps unsurpris-
ingly, our contrastive approach shows that,
in Portuguese at least, subjective texts are
characterized by markers such as descrip-
tive, reactive and opinionated terms, while
objective texts are characterized mainly by
the absence of subjective markers.
1 