
Twitter, a popular social networking service,
enables its users to not only send messages
but re-broadcast or retweet a message from an-
other Twitter user to their own followers. Con-
sidering the number of times that a message is
retweeted across Twitter is a straightforward
way to estimate how interesting it is. How-
ever, a considerable number of messages in
Twitter with high retweet counts are actually
mundane posts by celebrities that are of inter-
est to themselves and possibly their followers.
In this paper, we leverage retweets as implicit
relationships between Twitter users and mes-
sages and address the problem of automati-
cally finding messages in Twitter that may be
of potential interest to a wide audience by us-
ing link analysis methods that look at more
than just the sheer number of retweets. Exper-
imental results on real world data demonstrate
that the proposed method can achieve better
performance than several baseline methods.
1 