 
This paper focuses on computer writing tools 
used during the production of documents in a 
professional setting. Computer writing tools 
include language technologies, for example 
electronic dictionaries and text correction 
software, as well as information and 
communication technologies, for example 
collaborative platforms and search engines. As 
we will see, professional writing has become 
an entirely computerised activity. First, we 
report on a focus group with professional 
writers, during which they discussed their 
experience using computer tools to write 
documents. We will describe their practices, 
point out the most important problems they 
encounter, and analyse their needs. Second, we 
describe LinguisTech, a reference web site for 
language professionals (translators, writers, 
language instructors, etc.) that was launched in 
Canada in September, 2011. We comment on a 
preliminary evaluation that we conducted to 
determine if this new platform meets 
professional writers? needs.    
1 