
In this paper, we propose a novel approach
to compare languages on the basis of par-
allel texts. Instead of using word lists or
abstract grammatical characteristics to infer
(phylogenetic) relationships, we use mul-
tilingual alignments of words in sentences
to establish measures of language similar-
ity. To this end, we introduce a new method
to quickly infer a multilingual alignment of
words, using the co-occurrence of words in
a massively parallel text (MPT) to simulta-
neously align a large number of languages.
The idea is that a simultaneous multilin-
gual alignment yields a more adequate clus-
tering of words across different languages
than the successive analysis of bilingual
alignments. Since the method is computa-
tionally demanding for a larger number of
languages, we reformulate the problem us-
ing sparse matrix calculations. The useful-
ness of the approach is tested on an MPT
that has been extracted from pamphlets of
the Jehova?s Witnesses. Our preliminary
experiments show that this approach can
supplement both the historical and the ty-
pological comparison of languages.
1 