
The introduction of large-margin based dis-
criminative methods for optimizing statistical
machine translation systems in recent years
has allowed exploration into many new types
of features for the translation process. By
removing the limitation on the number of
parameters which can be optimized, these
methods have allowed integrating millions of
sparse features. However, these methods have
not yet met with wide-spread adoption. This
may be partly due to the perceived complex-
ity of implementation, and partly due to the
lack of standard methodology for applying
these methods to MT. This papers aims to shed
light on large-margin learning for MT, explic-
itly presenting the simple passive-aggressive
algorithm which underlies many previous ap-
proaches, with direct application to MT, and
empirically comparing several widespread op-
timization strategies.
1 