
Studies of gender balance in academic com-
puter science are typically based on statistics
on enrollment and graduation. Going beyond
these coarse measures of gender participation,
we conduct a fine-grained study of gender
in the field of Natural Language Processing.
We use topic models (Latent Dirichlet Allo-
cation) to explore the research topics of men
and women in the ACL Anthology Network.
We find that women publish more on dialog,
discourse, and sentiment, while men publish
more than women in parsing, formal seman-
tics, and finite state models. To conduct our
study we labeled the gender of authors in the
ACL Anthology mostly manually, creating a
useful resource for other gender studies. Fi-
nally, our study of historical patterns in fe-
male participation shows that the proportion
of women authors in computational linguis-
tics has been continuously increasing, with
approximately a 50% increase in the three
decades since 1980.
1 