
This paper proposes the use of unsuper-
vised approaches to improve components of
partition-based belief tracking systems. The
proposed method adopts a dynamic Bayesian
network to learn the user action model directly
from a machine-transcribed dialog corpus. It
also addresses confidence score calibration to
improve the observation model in a unsuper-
vised manner using dialog-level grounding in-
formation. To verify the effectiveness of the
proposed method, we applied it to the Let?s Go
domain (Raux et al, 2005). Overall system
performance for several comparative models
were measured. The results show that the pro-
posed method can learn an effective user ac-
tion model without human intervention. In
addition, the calibrated confidence score was
verified by demonstrating the positive influ-
ence on the user action model learning process
and on overall system performance.
1 