
Question answering systems answer cor-
rectly to different questions because they
are based on different strategies. In order
to increase the number of questions which
can be answered by a single process, we
propose solutions to combine two question
answering systems, QAVAL and RITEL.
QAVAL proceeds by selecting short pas-
sages, annotates them by question terms,
and then extracts from them answers which
are ordered by a machine learning valida-
tion process. RITEL develops a multi-level
analysis of questions and documents. An-
swers are extracted and ordered according
to two strategies: by exploiting the redun-
dancy of candidates and a Bayesian model.
In order to merge the system results, we de-
veloped different methods either by merg-
ing passages before answer ordering, or by
merging end-results. The fusion of end-
results is realized by voting, merging, and
by a machine learning process on answer
characteristics, which lead to an improve-
ment of the best system results of 19 %.
1 