
Variation in language style can lead to differ-
ent perceptions of the interaction, and differ-
ent behaviour outcomes. Using the CRAG 2
language generation system we examine how
accurately judges can perceive character per-
sonality from short, automatically generated
dialogues, and how alignment (similarity be-
tween speakers) alters judge perceptions of the
characters? relationship. Whilst personality
perception of our dialogues is consistent with
perceptions of human behaviour, we find that
the introduction of alignment leads to nega-
tive perceptions of the dialogues and the inter-
locutors? relationship. A follow up evaluation
study of the perceptions of different forms of
alignment in the dialogues reveals that while
similarity at polarity, topic and construction
levels is viewed positively, similarity at the
word level is regarded negatively. We discuss
our findings in relation to the literature and in
the context of dialogue systems.
1 