
The correct translation of verb tenses en-
sures that the temporal ordering of events
in the source text is maintained in the tar-
get text. This paper assesses the utility
of automatically labeling English Simple
Past verbs with a binary discursive fea-
ture, narrative vs. non-narrative, for sta-
tistical machine translation (SMT) into
French. The narrativity feature, which
helps deciding which of the French past
tenses is a correct translation of the En-
glish Simple Past, can be assigned with
about 70% accuracy (F1). The narrativity
feature improves SMT by about 0.2 BLEU
points when a factored SMT system is
trained and tested on automatically labeled
English-French data. More importantly,
manual evaluation shows that verb tense
translation and verb choice are improved
by respectively 9.7% and 3.4% (absolute),
leading to an overall improvement of verb
translation of 17% (relative).
1 