
The identification of causal relations be-
tween verbal events is important for
achieving natural language understanding.
However, the problem has proven notori-
ously difficult since it is not clear which
types of knowledge are necessary to solve
this challenging problem close to human
level performance. Instead of employing a
large set of features proved useful in other
NLP tasks, we split the problem in smaller
sub problems. Since verbs play a very im-
portant role in causal relations, in this pa-
per we harness, explore, and evaluate the
predictive power of causal associations of
verb-verb pairs. More specifically, we pro-
pose a set of knowledge-rich metrics to
learn the likelihood of causal relations be-
tween verbs. Employing these metrics, we
automatically generate a knowledge base
(KBc) which identifies three categories
of verb pairs: Strongly Causal, Ambigu-
ous, and Strongly Non-causal. The knowl-
edge base is evaluated empirically. The re-
sults show that our metrics perform signif-
icantly better than the state-of-the-art on
the task of detecting causal verbal events.
1 