
Stylometric analysis of prose is typically lim-
ited to classification tasks such as authorship
attribution. Since the models used are typi-
cally black boxes, they give little insight into
the stylistic differences they detect. In this
paper, we characterize two prose genres syn-
tactically: chick lit (humorous novels on the
challenges of being a modern-day urban fe-
male) and high literature. First, we develop
a top-down computational method based on
existing literary-linguistic theory. Using an
off-the-shelf parser we obtain syntactic struc-
tures for a Dutch corpus of novels and measure
the distribution of sentence types in chick-lit
and literary novels. The results show that liter-
ature contains more complex (subordinating)
sentences than chick lit. Secondly, a bottom-up
analysis is made of specific morphological and
syntactic features in both genres, based on the
parser?s output. This shows that the two gen-
res can be distinguished along certain features.
Our results indicate that detailed insight into
stylistic differences can be obtained by com-
bining computational linguistic analysis with
literary theory.
1 