
We demonstrate a conversational interface
that assists pedestrian users in navigat-
ing within urban environments and acquir-
ing tourist information by combining spo-
ken dialogue system, question-answering
(QA), and geographic information sys-
tem (GIS) technologies. In contrast to
existing mobile applications which treat
these problems independently, our An-
droid agent addresses the problem of navi-
gation and touristic question-answering in
an integrated fashion using a shared dia-
logue context with multiple interleaved di-
alogue threads. In this paper, we present
the architecture and features of our lat-
est system, extended from an earlier ver-
sion which was built and evaluated with
real users (Janarthanam et al, 2013). The
new features include navigation based on
visible landmarks, navigation adapted to
the user?s previous route knowledge, and
tourist information pushing based on vis-
ible and proximal points-of-interest. The
system also uses social media to infer
?popularity? of geographical entities.
1 