
We design a new co-occurrence based
word association measure by incorpo-
rating the concept of significant co-
occurrence in the popular word associ-
ation measure Pointwise Mutual Infor-
mation (PMI). By extensive experiments
with a large number of publicly available
datasets we show that the newly intro-
duced measure performs better than other
co-occurrence based measures and de-
spite being resource-light, compares well
with the best known resource-heavy dis-
tributional similarity and knowledge based
word association measures. We investi-
gate the source of this performance im-
provement and find that of the two types
of significant co-occurrence - corpus-level
and document-level, the concept of cor-
pus level significance combined with the
use of document counts in place of word
counts is responsible for all the perfor-
mance gains observed. The concept of
document level significance is not helpful
for PMI adaptation.
1 