 
Identification of complex clinical phenotypes 
among critically ill patients is a major chal-
lenge in clinical research. The overall research 
goal of our work is to develop automated ap-
proaches that accurately identify critical illness 
phenotypes to prevent the resource intensive 
manual abstraction approach. In this paper, we 
describe a text processing method that uses 
Natural Language Processing (NLP) and su-
pervised text classification methods to identify 
patients who are positive for Acute Lung Inju-
ry (ALI) based on the information available in 
free-text chest x-ray reports. To increase the 
classification performance we enhanced the 
baseline unigram representation with bigram 
and trigram features, enriched the n-gram fea-
tures with assertion analysis, and applied sta-
tistical feature selection. We used 10-fold 
cross validation for evaluation and our best 
performing classifier achieved 81.70% preci-
sion (positive predictive value), 75.59% recall 
(sensitivity), 78.53% f-score, 74.61% negative 
predictive value, 76.80% specificity in identi-
fying patients with ALI. 
1 