 
The present article provides a compre-
hensive review of the work carried out 
on developing PRESEMT, a hybrid lan-
guage-independent machine translation 
(MT) methodology. This methodology 
has been designed to facilitate rapid 
creation of MT systems for uncon-
strained language pairs, setting the low-
est possible requirements on specialised 
resources and tools. Given the limited 
availability of resources for many lan-
guages, only a very small bilingual cor-
pus is required, while language model-
ling is performed by sampling a large 
target language (TL) monolingual cor-
pus. The article summarises implementa-
tion decisions, using the Greek-English 
language pair as a test case. Evaluation 
results are reported, for both objective 
and subjective metrics. Finally, main er-
ror sources are identified and directions 
are described to improve this hybrid MT 
methodology. 
1 