
Existing spoken dialogue systems are typ-
ically designed to operate in a static and
well-defined domain, and are not well
suited to tasks in which the concepts and
values change dynamically. To handle dy-
namically changing domains, techniques
will be needed to transfer and reuse ex-
isting dialogue policies and rapidly adapt
them using a small number of dialogues in
the new domain. As a first step in this di-
rection, this paper addresses the problem
of automatically extending a dialogue sys-
tem to include a new previously unseen
concept (or slot) which can be then used
as a search constraint in an information
query. The paper shows that in the con-
text of Gaussian process POMDP optimi-
sation, a domain can be extended through
a simple expansion of the kernel and then
rapidly adapted. As well as being much
quicker, adaptation rather than retraining
from scratch is shown to avoid subjecting
users to unacceptably poor performance
during the learning stage.
1 