 
Natural Language call routing remains a com-
plex and challenging research area in machine 
intelligence and language understanding. This 
paper is in the area of classifying user utter-
ances into different categories. The focus is on 
design of algorithm that combines supervised 
and unsupervised learning models in order to 
improve classification quality. We have shown 
that the proposed approach is able to outper-
form existing methods on a large dataset and 
do not require morphological and stop-word 
filtering. In this paper we present a new for-
mula for term relevance estimation, which is a 
modification of fuzzy rules relevance estima-
tion for fuzzy classifier. Using this formula 
and only 300 frequent words for each class, we 
achieve an accuracy rate of 85.55% on the da-
tabase excluding the ?garbage? class (it in-
cludes utterances that cannot be assigned to 
any useful class or that can be assigned to 
more than one class). Dividing the ?garbage? 
class into the set of subclasses by agglomera-
tive hierarchical clustering we achieve about 
9% improvement of accuracy rate on the 
whole database. 
1 