
Most compositional-distributional models
of meaning are based on ambiguous vec-
tor representations, where all the senses
of a word are fused into the same vec-
tor. This paper provides evidence that the
addition of a vector disambiguation step
prior to the actual composition would be
beneficial to the whole process, produc-
ing better composite representations. Fur-
thermore, we relate this issue with the
current evaluation practice, showing that
disambiguation-based tasks cannot reli-
ably assess the quality of composition. Us-
ing a word sense disambiguation scheme
based on the generic procedure of Sch?tze
(1998), we first provide a proof of con-
cept for the necessity of separating dis-
ambiguation from composition. Then we
demonstrate the benefits of an ?unambigu-
ous? system on a composition-only task.
1 