
We describe the results of our submissions
to the WMT13 Shared Task on Quality
Estimation (subtasks 1.1 and 1.3). Our
submissions use the framework of Gaus-
sian Processes to investigate lightweight
approaches for this problem. We focus on
two approaches, one based on feature se-
lection and another based on active learn-
ing. Using only 25 (out of 160) fea-
tures, our model resulting from feature
selection ranked 1st place in the scoring
variant of subtask 1.1 and 3rd place in
the ranking variant of the subtask, while
the active learning model reached 2nd
place in the scoring variant using only
?25% of the available instances for train-
ing. These results give evidence that
Gaussian Processes achieve the state of
the art performance as a modelling ap-
proach for translation quality estimation,
and that carefully selecting features and
instances for the problem can further im-
prove or at least maintain the same per-
formance levels while making the problem
less resource-intensive.
1 