
Cultural heritage collections usually or-
ganise sets of items into exhibitions or
guided tours. These items are often
accompanied by text that describes the
theme and topic of the exhibition and pro-
vides background context and details of
connections with other items. The PATHS
project brings the idea of guided tours
to digital library collections where a tool
to create virtual paths are used to assist
with navigation and provide guides on par-
ticular subjects and topics. In this pa-
per we characterise and analyse paths of
items created by users of our online sys-
tem. The analysis highlights that most
users spend time selecting items relevant
to their chosen topic, but few users took
time to add background information to the
paths. In order to address this, we con-
ducted preliminary investigations to test
whether Wikipedia can be used to au-
tomatically add background text for se-
quences of items. In the future we would
like to explore the automatic creation of
full paths.
1 