 
Many dialog state tracking algorithms have 
been limited to generative modeling due to the 
influence of the Partially Observable Markov 
Decision Process framework. Recent analyses, 
however, raised fundamental questions on the 
effectiveness of the generative formulation. In 
this paper, we present a structured 
discriminative model for dialog state tracking 
as an alternative. Unlike generative models, 
the proposed method affords the incorporation 
of features without having to consider 
dependencies between observations. It also 
provides a flexible mechanism for imposing 
relational constraints. To verify the 
effectiveness of the proposed method, we 
applied it to the Let?s Go domain (Raux et al, 
2005). The results show that the proposed 
model is superior to the baseline and 
generative model-based systems in accuracy, 
discrimination, and robustness to mismatches 
between training and test datasets.  
 
1 