 
This paper proposes a hybrid word alignment 
model for Phrase-Based Statistical Machine 
translation (PB-SMT). The proposed hybrid 
alignment model provides most informative 
alignment links which are offered by both un-
supervised and semi-supervised word align-
ment models. Two unsupervised word align-
ment models (GIZA++ and Berkeley aligner) 
and a rule based aligner are combined togeth-
er. The rule based aligner only aligns named 
entities (NEs) and chunks. The NEs are 
aligned through transliteration using a joint 
source-channel model. Chunks are aligned 
employing a bootstrapping approach by trans-
lating the source chunks into the target lan-
guage using a baseline PB-SMT system and 
subsequently validating the target chunks us-
ing a fuzzy matching technique against the 
target corpus. All the experiments are carried 
out after single-tokenizing the multi-word 
NEs.  Our best system provided significant 
improvements over the baseline as measured 
by BLEU.  
1 