
A current increasing trend in machine
translation is to combine data-driven and
rule-based techniques. Such combinations
typically involve the hybridization of dif-
ferent paradigms such as, for instance,
the introduction of linguistic knowledge
into statistical paradigms, the incorpora-
tion of data-driven components into rule-
based paradigms, or the pre- and post-
processing of either sort of translation sys-
tem outputs. Aiming at bringing together
researchers and practitioners from the dif-
ferent multidisciplinary areas working in
these directions, as well as at creating a
brainstorming and discussion venue for
Hybrid Translation approaches, the Hy-
Tra initiative was born. This paper gives
an overview of the Second Workshop on
Hybrid Approaches to Translation (HyTra
2013) concerning its motivation, contents
and outcomes.
1 