
We present a novel method to recognise
semantic equivalents of biomedical terms
in language pairs. We hypothesise that
biomedical term are formed by seman-
tically similar textual units across lan-
guages. Based on this hypothesis, we
employ a Random Forest (RF) classifier
that is able to automatically mine higher
order associations between textual units
of the source and target language when
trained on a corpus of both positive and
negative examples. We apply our method
on two language pairs: one that uses the
same character set and another with a dif-
ferent script, English-French and English-
Chinese, respectively. We show that
English-French pairs of terms are highly
transliterated in contrast to the English-
Chinese pairs. Nonetheless, our method
performs robustly on both cases. We eval-
uate RF against a state-of-the-art align-
ment method, GIZA++, and we report a
statistically significant improvement. Fi-
nally, we compare RF against Support
Vector Machines and analyse our results.
1 