
Statistical machine translation (SMT) per-
formance suffers when models are trained
on only small amounts of parallel data.
The learned models typically have both
low accuracy (incorrect translations and
feature scores) and low coverage (high
out-of-vocabulary rates). In this work, we
use an additional data resource, compa-
rable corpora, to improve both. Begin-
ning with a small bitext and correspond-
ing phrase-based SMT model, we improve
coverage by using bilingual lexicon induc-
tion techniques to learn new translations
from comparable corpora. Then, we sup-
plement the model?s feature space with
translation scores estimated over compa-
rable corpora in order to improve accu-
racy. We observe improvements between
0.5 and 1.7 BLEU translating Tamil, Tel-
ugu, Bengali, Malayalam, Hindi, and Urdu
into English.
1 