 
This paper presents a simple and effective 
method for automatic bilingual lexicon extrac-
tion from less-known language pairs. To do 
this, we bring in a bridge language named the 
pivot language and adopt information retrieval 
techniques combined with natural language 
processing techniques. Moreover, we use a 
freely available word aligner: Anymalign 
(Lardilleux et al, 2011) for constructing con-
text vectors. Unlike the previous works, we 
obtain context vectors via a pivot language. 
Therefore, we do not require to translate con-
text vectors by using a seed dictionary and im-
prove the accuracy of low frequency word 
alignments that is weakness of statistical mod-
el by using Anymalign. In this paper, experi-
ments have been conducted on two different 
language pairs that are bi-directional Korean-
Spanish and Korean-French, respectively. The 
experimental results have demonstrated that 
our method for high-frequency words shows at 
least 76.3 and up to 87.2% and for the low-
frequency words at least 43.3% and up to 48.9% 
within the top 20 ranking candidates, respec-
tively. 
1 