
Applying machine translation (MT) to lit-
erary texts involves the same domain shift
challenges that arise for any sublanguage
(e.g. medical or scientific). However, it
also introduces additional challenges. One
focus in the discussion of translation the-
ory in the humanities has been on the hu-
man translator?s role in staying faithful to
an original text versus adapting it to make
it more familiar to readers. In contrast
to other domains, one objective in literary
translation is to preserve the experience of
reading a text when moving to the target
language. We use existing MT systems to
translate samples of French literature into
English. We then use qualitative analy-
sis grounded in translation theory and real
example outputs in order to address what
makes literary translation particularly hard
and the potential role of the machine in it.
1 