
We present an empirical study on construct-
ing a Japanese constituent parser, which can
output function labels to deal with more de-
tailed syntactic information. Japanese syn-
tactic parse trees are usually represented as
unlabeled dependency structure between bun-
setsu chunks, however, such expression is in-
sufficient to uncover the syntactic information
about distinction between complements and
adjuncts and coordination structure, which is
required for practical applications such as syn-
tactic reordering of machine translation. We
describe a preliminary effort on constructing
a Japanese constituent parser by a Penn Tree-
bank style treebank semi-automatically made
from a dependency-based corpus. The eval-
uations show the parser trained on the tree-
bank has comparable bracketing accuracy as
conventional bunsetsu-based parsers, and can
output such function labels as the grammatical
role of the argument and the type of adnominal
phrases.
1 