
In this paper we describe a natural lan-
guage generation system which produces
complex sentences from a biology knowl-
edge base. The NLG system allows do-
main experts to discover errors in the
knowledge base and generates certain
parts of answers in response to users?
questions in an e-textbook application.
The system allows domain experts to cus-
tomise its lexical resources and to set pa-
rameters which influence syntactic con-
structions in generated sentences. The
system is capable of dealing with certain
types of incomplete inputs arising from a
knowledge base which is constantly edited
and includes a referring expression gen-
eration module which keeps track of dis-
course history. Our referring expression
module is available for download as the
open source Antfarm tool1.
1 