
We present a suggestive finding regarding
the loss of associative texture in the pro-
cess of machine translation, using com-
parisons between (a) original and back-
translated texts, (b) reference and system
translations, and (c) better and worse MT
systems. We represent the amount of as-
sociation in a text using word association
profile ? a distribution of pointwise mu-
tual information between all pairs of con-
tent word types in a text. We use the av-
erage of the distribution, which we term
lexical tightness, as a single measure of
the amount of association in a text. We
show that the lexical tightness of human-
composed texts is higher than that of the
machine translated materials; human ref-
erences are tighter than machine trans-
lations, and better MT systems produce
lexically tighter translations. While the
phenomenon of the loss of associative tex-
ture has been theoretically predicted by
translation scholars, we present a measure
capable of quantifying the extent of this
phenomenon.
1 