
We address the problem of localized error
detection in Automatic Speech Recognition
(ASR) output to support the generation of tar-
geted clarifications in spoken dialogue sys-
tems. Localized error detection finds specific
mis-recognized words in a user utterance. Tar-
geted clarifications, in contrast with generic
?please repeat/rephrase? clarifications, target
a specific mis-recognized word in an utter-
ance (Stoyanchev et al, 2012a) and require
accurate detection of such words. We extend
and modify work presented in (Stoyanchev et
al., 2012b) by experimenting with a new set
of features for predicting the likelihood of a
local error in an ASR hypothesis on an un-
sifted version of the original dataset. We im-
prove over baseline results, where only ASR-
generated features are used, by constructing
optimal feature sets for utterance and word
mis-recognition prediction. The f-measure for
identifying incorrect utterances improves by
2.2% and by 3.9% for identifiying incorrect
words.
1 