
As the amount of cultural data avail-
able on the Semantic Web is expand-
ing, the demand of accessing this
data in multiple languages is increas-
ing. Previous work on multilingual
access to cultural heritage informa-
tion has shown that at least two dif-
ferent problems must be dealt with
when mapping from ontologies to nat-
ural language: (1) mapping multilin-
gual metadata to interoperable knowl-
edge sources; (2) assigning multilin-
gual knowledge to cultural data. This
paper presents our effort to deal with
these problems. We describe our expe-
riences with processing museum data
extracted from two distinct sources,
harmonizing this data and making its
content accessible in natural language.
We extend prior work in two ways.
First, we present a grammar-based sys-
tem that is designed to generate co-
herent texts from Semantic Web on-
tologies in 15 languages. Second, we
describe how this multilingual system
is exploited to form queries using the
standard query language SPARQL. The
generation and retrieval system builds
on W3C standards and is available for
further research.
1 