
We introduce GenNext, an NLG system
designed specifically to adapt quickly and
easily to different domains. Given a do-
main corpus of historical texts, GenNext
allows the user to generate a template bank
organized by semantic concept via derived
discourse representation structures in con-
junction with general and domain-specific
entity tags. Based on various features
collected from the training corpus, the
system statistically learns template rep-
resentations and document structure and
produces well?formed texts (as evaluated
by crowdsourced and expert evaluations).
In addition to domain adaptation, Gen-
Next?s hybrid approach significantly re-
duces complexity as compared to tradi-
tional NLG systems by relying on tem-
plates (consolidating micro-planning and
surface realization) and minimizing the
need for domain experts. In this descrip-
tion, we provide details of GenNext?s the-
oretical perspective, architecture and eval-
uations of output.
1 