
We have implemented a rule-based proto-
type of a Spanish-to-Cuzco Quechua MT
system enhanced through the addition of
statistical components. The greatest dif-
ficulty during the translation process is to
generate the correct Quechua verb form in
subordinated clauses. The prototype has
several rules that decide which verb form
should be used in a given context. How-
ever, matching the context in order to ap-
ply the correct rule depends crucially on
the parsing quality of the Spanish input.
As the form of the subordinated verb de-
pends heavily on the conjunction in the
subordinated Spanish clause and the se-
mantics of the main verb, we extracted
this information from two treebanks and
trained different classifiers on this data.
We tested the best classifier on a set of 4
texts, increasing the correct subordinated
verb forms from 80% to 89%.
1 