
Despite being closely related languages,
German and English are characterized by
important word order differences. Long-
range reordering of verbs, in particular,
represents a real challenge for state-of-the-
art SMT systems and is one of the main
reasons why translation quality is often so
poor in this language pair. In this work,
we review several solutions to improve
the accuracy of German-English word re-
ordering while preserving the efficiency of
phrase-based decoding. Among these, we
consider a novel technique to dynamically
shape the reordering search space and
effectively capture long-range reordering
phenomena. Through an extensive eval-
uation including diverse translation qual-
ity metrics, we show that these solutions
can significantly narrow the gap between
phrase-based and hierarchical SMT.
1 