
Research on the structure of dialogue has
been hampered for years because large di-
alogue corpora have not been available.
This has impacted the dialogue research
community?s ability to develop better the-
ories, as well as good off-the-shelf tools
for dialogue processing. Happily, an in-
creasing amount of information and opin-
ion exchange occur in natural dialogue in
online forums, where people share their
opinions about a vast range of topics. In
particular we are interested in rejection
in dialogue, also called disagreement and
denial, where the size of available dia-
logue corpora, for the first time, offers
an opportunity to empirically test theo-
retical accounts of the expression and in-
ference of rejection in dialogue. In this
paper, we test whether topic-independent
features motivated by theoretical predic-
tions can be used to recognize rejection in
online forums in a topic-independent way.
Our results show that our theoretically mo-
tivated features achieve 66% accuracy, an
improvement over a unigram baseline of
an absolute 6%.
1 