
We propose a method to learn succinct hi-
erarchical linguistic descriptions of visual
datasets, which allow for improved navigation
efficiency in image collections. Classic ex-
ploratory data analysis methods, such as ag-
glomerative hierarchical clustering, only pro-
vide a means of obtaining a tree-structured
partitioning of the data. This requires the user
to go through the images first, in order to re-
veal the semantic relationship between the dif-
ferent nodes. On the other hand, in this work
we propose to learn a hierarchy of linguistic
descriptions, referred to as attributes, which
allows for a textual description of the seman-
tic content that is captured by the hierarchy.
Our approach is based on a generative model,
which relates the attribute descriptions asso-
ciated with each node, and the node assign-
ments of the data instances, in a probabilistic
fashion. We furthermore use a nonparametric
Bayesian prior, known as the tree-structured
stick breaking process, which allows for the
structure of the tree to be learned in an unsu-
pervised fashion. We also propose appropriate
performance measures, and demonstrate supe-
rior performance compared to other hierarchi-
cal clustering algorithms.
1 