 
We describe a system for extracting biomedi-
cal events among genes and proteins from 
biomedical literature, using the corpus from 
the BioNLP?13 Shared Task on Event Extrac-
tion. The proposed system is characterized by 
a wide array of features based on dependency 
parse graphs and additional argument informa-
tion in the second trigger detection. Based on 
the Uturku system which is the best one in the 
BioNLP?09 Shared Task, we improve the per-
formance of biomedical event extraction by 
reducing illegal events and false positives in 
the second trigger detection and the second ar-
gument detection. On the development set of 
BioNLP?13, the system achieves an F-score of 
50.96% on the primary task. On the test set of 
BioNLP?13, it achieves an F-score of 47.56% 
on the primary task obtaining the 5th place in 
task 1, which is 1.78 percentage points higher 
than the baseline (following the Uturku sys-
tem), demonstrating that the proposed method 
is efficient. 
1 