 
This paper describes the design and func- 
tioning of the English generation phase in 
JETS, a limited transfer, Japanese-English 
machine translation system that is loosely 
based on the linguistic framework of relational 
grammar. To facilitate the development of 
relational-grammar-based generators, we have 
built an NL-and-application-independent gen- 
erator shell and relational grammar rule- 
writing language. The implemented generator, 
GENIE, maps abstract canonical structures, 
representing the basic predicate-argument 
structures of sentences, into well-formed 
English sentences via a two-stage plan-and-ex- 
ecute design. This modularity permits the 
independent development of a very general, 
deterministic execution grammar that is driven 
by a set of planning rules sensitive to lexical, 
syntactic and stylistic constraints. Processing 
in GENIE is category-driven, i.e., grammatical 
rules are distributed over a part-of-speech 
hierarchy and, using an inheritance mech- 
anism, are invoked only ff appropriate for the 
category being processed. 
1- 