 
Chinese part-of-speech tagging is more difficult than 
its English counterpart because it needs to be solved 
together wgh the problem of word identification. In 
this paper, we present our work on Chinese part-of- 
speech tagging based on a first-order, fully-connected 
hsdden Markov model. Part of the 1991 United Daily 
corpus of approzimately 10 million Chinese charac- 
ters zs used for training and testing. A news arti- 
cle is first segmented into clauses, then into words 
by a Viterbi-based word identification system. The 
(untagged} segmented corpus is then used to train the 
HMM for tagging using the Bantu. Welch reestimation 
procedure. We also adopt Kupiec's concept of word 
equivalence classes in the tagger. Modeling higher or. 
der local constraints, a pattern.driven tag corrector is 
designed to postprocess the tag output of the Vgerbi 
decoder based on ~rained HMM parameters. Experi- 
mental results for various testing conditions are re. 
ported: The system is able to correctly tag approzi- 
mately 96~ of all words in the testing data. 
1 