 
The paper describes the experiences of a 
multi-national consortium in an on-going 
project o construct a multilingual uthoring 
tool for business letters. The consortium 
consists of two universities (both with 
significant experience in language 
engineering), three software companies, and 
various potential commercial users with the 
organisations being located in a total of four 
countries. The paper covers the history of 
the development of the project from an 
academic idea but focuses on the 
implications of the user-requirements 
orientated outlook of the commercial 
developers and the implications of this view 
for the system architecture, user 
requirements, delivery platforms and so on. 
Particularly interesting consequences of the 
user requirements are the database centred 
architecture, and the constraints and 
opportunities this presents for development 
of grammatical components at both the text 
and sentence l vel. 
I. 