 
This paper analyses the intonation of polar 
questions extracted from a corpus of task- 
oriented dialogues in the Bari variety of 
Italian. They are classified using a system 
developed for similar dialogues in English 
where each question is regarded as an init- 
iating move in a conversational game 
(Carletta et al1995). It was found that there 
was no one-to-one correspondence b tween 
move-type and intonation pattern. An alter- 
native classification was carried out taking 
into account information status, that is, 
whether or not the information requested by
the speaker isrecoverable from the previous 
dialogue context. It is found that he degree 
of confidence with which the speaker believ- 
es the information to be shared with the inter- 
locutor is reflected in the choice of pitch 
accent and postfocal ccentual pattern. Low 
confidence polar questions contain a L+H* 
focal pitch accent and allow for accents to 
follow it, whereas high confidence ones con- 
tain a H*+L focal pitch accent, followed by 
deaccenting orsuppression of accents. 
1 