 
The paper aises for discussion a proposal for the 
semi-automatic annotation of pronoun-antecedent 
pairs in corpora. The proposal is based on robust 
knowledge-poor p onoun resolution followed by 
post-editing. 
The paper is structured as follows. The introduc- 
tion comments on the fact that automatic dentifi- 
cation of referential links in corpora has lagged 
behind in comparison with similar lexical, syn- 
tactical and even semantic tasks. The second sec- 
tion of the paper outlines the author's practical 
and robust knowledge-based approach to pro- 
noun resolution which will subsequently be put 
forward as the core of a larger architecture pro- 
posed for the automatic tagging of referential 
links. Section 3 briefly presents other related 
knowledge-poor approaches, while section 4 dis- 
cusses the limitations and advantages of the 
practical approach. The main argument of the 
paper is to be found in section 5, where we pres- 
ent the idea of developing a semi-automatic envi- 
ronment for annotating anaphoric links and out- 
line the components of such a program. Finally, 
the conclusion looks at the anticipated success 
rate of the approach. 
1. 