 
The selectional preferences of verbal predicates are 
an important component of lexical information use- 
ful for a number of NLP tasks including disambiglia- 
tion of word senses. Approaches to selectional pref- 
erence acquisition without word sense disambigua- 
tion are reported to be prone to errors arising from 
erroneous word senses. Large scale automatic se- 
mantic tagging of texts in sufficient quantity for 
preference acquisition has received little attention as 
most research in word sense disambiguation has con- 
centrated on quality word sense disambiguation f
a handful of target words. The work described here 
concentrates on adapting semantic tagging methods 
that do not require a massive overhead of manual 
semantic tagging and that strike a reasonable com- 
promise between accuracy and cost so that large 
amounts of text can be tagged relatively quickly. 
The results of some of these adaptations are de- 
scribed here along with a comparison of the selec- 
tional preferences acquired with and without one of 
these methods. Results of a bootstrapping approach 
are also outlined in which the preferences obtained 
are used for coarse grained sense disambiguation a d 
then the partially disambiguated data is fed back 
into the preference acquisition system. 1 
1This work was supported by CEC Telematics Appli- 
cations Programme project LE1-2111 "SPARKLE: Shal- 
low PARsing and Knowledge xtraction for Language 
Engineering". 
1 