 
Hypertext linking is akin to deixis 
in that each points out of the dis- 
course to the context in which the 
discourse occurs. The context of a 
hypertext document such as a 
World Wide Web page is the 
World Wide Web itself. This study 
investigates ome linguistic aspects 
of hypertext, using as data Web 
pages from college students and 
commercial enterprises. I first look 
at the syntactic forms of hypertext 
anchors, finding them mostly noun 
phrases. Next, noting the intuitive 
similarities between hypertext and 
place deictics, I attempt to find a 
quantitative relationship between 
the two. I show that certain place 
deictics do occur more frequently 
inside of hypertext anchors than in 
the ordinary text of Web pages, but 
this is due to the popularity of the 
deictic here, as in click here. Ob- 
serving that hypertext style guides 
prescribe against he usage of click 
here, I hypothesize that more expe- 
neaced hypertext authors will dis- 
prefer this usage. Using the as- 
sumption that college students are 
less experienced than commercial 
Web authors, I am unable to con- 
firm this hypothesis statistically. 
Finally, I examine the various types 
ofdeixis Web authors use in hyper- 
text anch ors, finding the majority to 
be person deictics. I close by not- 
ing that the variety and creativity of 
deixis within hypertext anchors 
suggests that the relatively new 
medium of hypertext is a fully pro- 
ductive genre of natural language. 
1. 