 
We describe an automatic process for learn- 
ing word units in Japanese. Since the 
Japanese orthography has no spaces de- 
limiting words, the first step in building a 
Japanese speech recognition system is to 
define the units that will be recognized. 
Our method applies a compound-finding 
algorithm, previously used to find word se- 
quences in English, to learning syllable se- 
quences in Japanese. We report that we 
were able not only to extract meaningful 
units, eliminating the need for possibly in- 
consistent manual segmentation, but also 
to decrease perplexity using this automatic 
procedure, which relies on a statistical, not 
syntactic, measure of relevance. Our al- 
gorithm also uncovers the kinds of envi- 
ronments that help the recognizer predict 
phonological alternations, which are often 
hidden by morphologically-motivated tok- 
enization. 
1 