 
This paper describes the motivation and 
design of the Corpus Encoding Standard 
(CES) (Ide, et al, (1996); Ide, 1998), an 
encoding standard for linguistic corpora 
intended to meet the need for the 
development of standardized encoding 
practices for linguistic corpora. The CES 
identifies a minimal encoding level that 
corpora must achieve to be considered 
standardized in terms of descriptive 
representation (marking of structural and 
linguistic information). It also provides 
encoding conventions for more extensive 
encoding and for linguistic annotation, as 
well as general architecture for representing 
corpora annotated for linguistic features. The 
CES has been developed taking into account 
several practical realities surrounding the 
encoding of corpora intended for use in 
language engineering research and 
applications. Full documentation of the 
standard is available on the World Wide Web 
at http://www.cs.vassar.edu/CES/. 
