 
This paper introduces a methodology to 
analyse and resolve cases of coreference in
dialogues in English and Portuguese. A 
four-attribute annotation to analyse cases of 
anaphora was used to analyse a sample of 
around three thousand cases in each 
language collected in dialogue corpora. The 
information thus gathered was analysed by 
means of exploratory and model-building 
statistical procedures. A probabilistic model 
was then built on the basis of aggregate 
combinations of categories across the four 
attributes. This model, in combination with 
direct observation of cases, was used to 
build an antecedentqikelihood theory, which 
is at present being organised as a decision 
tree for the purpose of testing with a view 
for automatic annotation and subsequent 
resolution of coreference cases in dialogues 
in both languages. It is thought hat the 
findings could be extended to Spanish, 
Italian and possibly French. 
